SIX O'CLOCK I'M GOING TO
TO ORDER THE FEBRUARY MEETING
OF THE ANN ARBOR INDEPENDENT
COMMUNITY POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMITTEE.
>> GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
I'M GOING TO ASK HIM HIS
COMMENTS TO DO A ROLL CALL WHEN
I CALL YOUR LAST NAME, PLEASE
STATE THAT YOU ARE PRESENT
CHAIR CARTER PRESENT VICE CHAIR
OFMAN PRESENT COMMISSIONER
BELOW PRESENT COMMISSIONER
MILGROM PRESENT COMMISSIONER
PRESENT COMMISSIONER HAYNES
PRESENT FRANCIS PRESENT
COMMISSIONER LEW COMMISSIONER
BAILEY PRESENT COMMISSIONER
COOPER COMMISSIONER PIPKINS
COUNCIL MEMBER IGHER PRESENT
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON FORD
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> I'M GOING TO ASK THE
COMMISSIONERS TO PLEASE TAKE A
LOOK AT THE AGENDA AND THE
MINUTES FROM OUR LAST MEETING
AND AFTER DOING SO WILL
ENTERTAIN A MOTION TO ACCEPT
FIRST THE AGENDA AND THEN THE
MINUTES OF OUR LAST MEETING
.
YES, THANK YOU.
SECOND, SECOND.
THANK YOU.
HAVE A SECOND.
MY MOVE BY COMMISSIONER AND BY
MR. OFMAN THAT THE AGENDA BE
APPROVED.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION, ANY
ADDITIONS TO THE AGENDA ALL IN
FAVOR OF APPROVAL PLEASE
SIGNIFY BY SAYING I SUPPOSE
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE THE SAME
DRILL WITH THE MINUTES I HAVE A
MOTION FOR APPROVAL SO ALL
RIGHT, COMMISSIONER HAHN, SO
APPROVE
.
IS THERE A SECOND ANY
DISCUSSION?
NO CORRECTIONS ALL IN FAVOR.
>> I OPPOSE.
THANK YOU.
>> NOW IS A TIME FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE HERE JOINING
US TODAY WHO WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION?
WE WELCOME ANYONE TO COME
FORWARD AND BRING ANY OF THOSE
WHO ARE WATCHING US.
WE WELCOME YOUR INPUT NOT JUST
COMPLAINTS, COMMENTS OF ANY
KIND AND WE'LL MOVE ON.
I WANT TO AGAIN RECOGNIZE AN
OFFICER WHO COMES AND SITS WITH
US.
WE APPRECIATE YOU.
THANKS VERY MUCH.
IF NO ONE ON LINE.
ALL RIGHT THEN WE'LL MOVE RIGHT
AHEAD.
FIRST IS A REPORT FROM THE
CHAIR.
I WANT TO WISH EVERYONE A HAPPY
BLACK HISTORY MONTH THE LAST
WEEK OF BLACK HISTORY MONTH.
AND YOU KNOW, IF WE DON'T KNOW
OUR HISTORY, WE DON'T KNOW
WHERE WE'RE GOING.
ONE THING THAT I WANTED TO
MENTION AS A BLACK HISTORY FACT
YOU KNOW THE REASON FOR OUR
EXISTENCE HINGES IN LARGE
MEASURE ON WHAT HAS GONE BEFORE
AND THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
COMMUNITIES AFRICAN-AMERICAN
DESCENT AND THE POLICE HAVE
BEEN ROCKY FROM THE BEGINNING
AND FOR THOSE WHO ARE AWARE
OF SOME OF THE FIRST POLICE IN
THE COUNTRY WHERE IN THE EARLY
EIGHTEEN HUNDREDS WERE THE
SLAVE CATCHERS AND SO FROM THAT
TIME TO THIS WE'VE BEEN TRYING
TO REPAIR AND SO THAT GIVES US
A GOOD REASON FOR CONTINUING
THE THE WORK THAT WE DO.
I WAS I WAS AT A MEETING THE
OTHER DAY AND THE MODERATOR
SAID AND ORGANIZATION'S SUCCESS
IS DEPENDENT ON THE COMMITMENT
OF ITS MEMBERS AND I SAID THAT
THAT WAS PROBABLY WORTH
REPEATING.
WE CERTAINLY APPRECIATE THE
COMMITMENT ALL OF THE
COMMISSIONERS IT'S GOOD TO SEE
EVERYBODY HERE TODAY.
>> I'M GOING TO REMIND YOU TO
PLEASE CHECK YOUR EMAILS ON A
REGULAR BASIS.
>> HOPEFULLY EVERY DAY DOESN'T
TAKE THAT MUCH JUST OH I BET I
BET YOU HURT ME SO MUCH.
>> WHAT'S HAPPENING IS THAT OK?
HE NEEDED YOU TO SPEAK.
I DON'T NEED TO REPEAT
EVERYTHING I JUST SAID.
>> OK NOW CHECK YOUR CITY
EMAILS ONCE A DAY WOULD BE GOOD
BECAUSE THAT IS THE WAY THAT WE
COMMUNICATE.
>> I KNOW THAT COMMISSIONER
FRANCIS ON BEHALF OF THE
OUTREACH COMMITTEE HAS ASKED US
ALL TO SUBMIT A HEADSHOT WHICH
WAS HARD FOR ME.
I DIDN'T HAVE ONE.
SO YES, ASK MY HUSBAND, TAKE MY
PICTURE AND THEN SHE'S GOT TO
KIND OF ZOOM IN ON IT AND I
THINK THAT WAS SUFFICIENT,
RIGHT?
ABSOLUTELY.
ALL RIGHT.
SO IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE A
PROFESSIONAL HEADSHOT.
THIS IS FOR OUR PRESENCE ON
SOCIAL MEDIA AND SO WE
APPRECIATE WHAT THE COMMITTEE
IS DOING WITH THAT AND LOOK
FORWARD TO HER REPORT.
>> BUT PLEASE RESPOND RESPOND
TO THAT REQUEST SO WE CAN IT
WOULD BE GOOD TO HEAR ALTHOUGH
I'M NOT ON SOCIAL MEDIA TO HAVE
THOSE PEOPLE WHO DO WANT TO
LOOK UP THE COMMISSION ON
SOCIAL MEDIA TO KNOW WHO WE
ARE.
>> OK, NEXT.
>> WHEN WE WERE I KNOW
COMMISSIONER PIPKIN WAS THERE
AS WELL WHEN WE DID THE TABLE
AT JUNETEENTH WE WERE PASSING
OUT THE LITTLE CARDS WITH THE
DRIVER EQUALITY ORDINANCE, THE
TEN THINGS THAT POLICE NO
LONGER WOULD STOP A MOTORIST
FOR AND I THINK THAT THE
COMMUNITY WAS QUITE INTERESTED
IN THOSE.
WOULD YOU AGREE WITH THAT,
COMMISSIONER
?
>> I DEFINITELY THINK PEOPLE
WERE INTERESTED IN THOSE CARS
AND IT WAS INTERESTING THAT A
LOT OF PEOPLE WERE NOT AWARE
THE NEW ORDINANCE THAT WAS
PASSED.
>> SO IT WAS AN EYE OPENER FOR
A LOT OF PEOPLE AND A LOT
OF PEOPLE DID TAKE IT AND TO
PASS OUT TO OTHERS AND THOSE
WERE PRINTED OUT BY THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
AND SO I THINK IT'S BEEN
SUGGESTED TO ME THAT IT'S OUR
TURN TO PRINT THEM BECAUSE
WE'RE OUT AS FAR AS I KNOW MISS
CUMMINS, IF WE GET A QUOTE YES.
DO YOU REMEMBER WHAT WHAT DO
YOU HAVE IT WITH IT?
I'M SURE YOU DIVISIVELY I THINK
IT WAS ABOUT 200 OR SO.
>> I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE NUMBER
IS.
>> I THINK IT WAS A COUPLE
HUNDRED DOLLARS TO HAVE THEM
PRINTED.
I'M NOT SURE HOW MANY THAT WAS
TO HAVE THEM PRINTED AND THEN
LAMINATE LAMINATED
SO THEY
HAVEN'T BEEN IT LOOKS LIKE IT
WAS FIVE THREE
TWENTY FOUR
STANDARD WHITE SO THAT LOOKS TO
BE ABOUT OH 100 OR 200 SO
DEPENDING ON WHICH POINT YOU
GUYS WANT OR ONE HUNDRED IT
WOULD BE ONE SIXTY SIX TWENTY
THREE FOR TWO HUNDRED TWENTY
TWO NINETY FIVE TWENTY SEVEN OR
JUST THE PRINT THAT'S TO DO THE
WHOLE THING AND LEMONADE WELL
YOU KNOW WHICH REMINDS ME AS
WELL I KNOW WE'RE GOING TO GET
TO YOU HAVE YOU HAVE YOUR
PACKET OF FLIER FOR A EVENT
THAT'S COMING UP THIS THURSDAY
.
YES.
THAT I'M NOT GOING TO BE ABLE
TO ATTEND UNFORTUNATELY I KNOW
I HAVE ANOTHER ENGAGEMENT.
I KNOW COMMISSIONER COOPER HAD
SAID HE COULD COME AND
HOPEFULLY SOME OTHER
COMMISSIONERS WILL BE ABLE TO
ATTEND THAT AND I MEANT TO
BRING I'VE GOT A STACK
OF THINGS TO SIT ON THE TABLE
SO MAYBE I CAN DROP THOSE OFF
TO YOU.
>> COMMISSIONER HAYNES THAT
WOULD BE WONDERFUL.
YES.
OK, I'LL DO THAT.
I HAVE TO DO IT TOMORROW.
OK, OK, I WILL DO THAT.
BUT IN ANY CASE IT'S GOOD TO
HAVE THESE THINGS WHEN THERE IS
AN EVENT THAT THEY'LL LET US
HAVE A LITTLE TABLE SPACE.
SO I'M LOOKING AT I DON'T THINK
200 IS TOO MANY.
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S TOO FEW.
WHAT YOU ALL THINK OH NO NO NO
NO.
>> THIS IS TO HAVE THEM THE
LAMBIN THIS IS IT'S A DIFFERENT
DOCUMENT.
THIS IS JUST THE CARDS WITH THE
DRIVE EQUALITY ORDINANCE ON IT.
>> TWO HUNDRED THAT TOO MANY IS
NOT TOO MANY.
>> NO THEY GO VERY FAST.
IS IT THE SAME ONES THAT YEAH
TAKE A QUICK I AGREE SO DO YOU
WANT TO DO MORE THAN TWO
HUNDRED SO IF I MIGHT INTERJECT
AND THIS IS PRELIMINARY BUT AN
ORGANIZATION AH DELTA SIGMA
THETA SOCIAL JUSTICE
ORGANIZATION THAT'S PUTTING ON
THIS PARTICULAR ONE THIS
THURSDAY'S ALSO GOING TO BE
DOING A SECOND ONE AND AT THAT
ONE WE ARE GOING WE ANTICIPATE
TALKING MORE ABOUT THE TRAFFIC
ORDINANCE AND IT WOULD BE GOOD
IF WE COULD HAVE ENOUGH
OF THOSE TO GIVE OUT AT THAT
ONE AND THAT'S GOING TO BE IN
MAY.
>> SO DOES IT MAKE SENSE TO TO
PRINT MORE NOW?
>> I MEAN THE ORDINANCE ISN'T
GOING TO CHANGE.
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO SPOIL.
SO I THINK WE CAN CERTAINLY
MAKE YES.
>> YOU WANT TO FIND OUT WHAT
THE MAYBE FOUR HUNDRED IS?
I THINK BETWEEN FIVE HUNDRED
AND ONE THOUSAND AND SEE WHAT
THEY CAN GIVE US MAYBE THE MORE
THE NUMBER IS THE CHEAPER PER
UNIT.
>> IS THERE A REASON WHY THEY
HAVE TO BE LAMINATED?
IT WAS JUST NICE OK AND PEOPLE
CAN PUT THEM ON REAL CARDSTOCK
OR SOMETHING BECAUSE IT'S
SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE WILL
CARRY WITH IT'S GOING TO IF
IT'S JUST ON REGULAR CARDSTOCK
IT'LL EVENTUALLY PEOPLE SAYING
WELL WE'RE GOING TO PUT THEM ON
THE DASHBOARD IF WELL DON'T
REACH FORWARD IF YOU STOPPED.
>> BUT TO HAVE TO HAVE IT IS
GOOD AND THE LAMINATION I THINK
WAS WAS GOOD WAS GOOD.
>> SO CAN I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE PRINTING OF 500 OF THE
CARDS PRINTING AND LAMINATION
OF FIVE HUNDRED OF THE CARDS
SHOWING THE DRIVING EQUALITY
ORDINANCE AND IF SOMEONE
WHOEVER MAKES THE MOTION WISHES
TO INSERT A DIFFERENT NUMBER
THAT WOULD BE OK.
>> WE'LL SEE.
I MAKE THE MOTION TO WRITE FIVE
HUNDRED OF THE LAMINATED OR
THAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT IS
THERE A SECOND SECOND SO SO WE
DON'T HAVE A FIGURE YET BUT WE
CAN GO AHEAD I THINK BASED ON
WHAT WE KNOW AND APPROVE THAT
WHATEVER THAT COST IS GOING TO
BE ALL RIGHT.
>> ANY ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION.
MM.
>> WE GOT TO DISCUSS FIRST
ANY
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON THAT
MOTION.
>> ALL RIGHT.
ALL IN FAVOR.
I.
>> ARE THERE ANY OPPOSED THANK
YOU.
WE ARE GOING TO THERE'S WE HAVE
A NEW PROCEDURE AND THIS IS
ESPECIALLY FOR THE INFORMATION
MANAGERS ANYONE ELSE WHO'S
CONSIDERING BECOMING AN
INFORMATION MANAGER.
NEW TRANSPARENCY PROCEDURE THAT
WE'VE WORKED OUT WITH THE
CHIEF.
WE APPRECIATE HIM AND AS YOU
KNOW, WE HAD TALKED ABOUT THE
REDACTIONS THAT WE GET ON ON
REPORTS AND ON VIDI ON BODY
WORN CAMERA VIDEOS.
SO WHAT WHAT'S HAPPENING NOW IS
THAT IT'S ONLY ONCE A RIGHT IS
THAT ONCE A MONTH EVERY TWO
YEAH.
>> OK.
EVERY TWO MONTHS WE SIT DOWN
AND ANY OF THE FROM INFORMATION
MANAGERS THAT WISH TO COME I
KNOW COMMISSIONER GRANT CAME
THE LAST TIME AND ALONG WITH
VICE CHAIR OF MANAMA'S AND WE
CAN IN THE POLICE DEPART ROOM
WE CAN SEE THE UNREDACTED
MATERIALS AND WE CAN SEE THE
UNREDACTED VIDEOS AND WE
DISCUSS WHAT WE SEE AND THE
LAST TIME THE CHIEF WAS THERE
AND SEVERAL OF HIS COMMANDS
STAFF WERE THERE AND IT WAS I
THOUGHT IT WAS JUST A REALLY
GOOD SESSION AND WE LOOKED AT
SOME THINGS THAT ACTUALLY MADE
SOME RECOMMENDATIONS EVEN WHERE
WE SAID WELL OK, THERE'S NOT
ANYTHING TO COMPLAIN ABOUT BUT
WE THINK MAYBE YOU OUGHT TO
THINK ABOUT THIS SO THERE WAS A
WAY FOR US TO DISCUSS WITH A
DEPARTMENT THERE AND I JUST
AGAIN APPRECIATE CHIEF ANDERSON
FOR SETTING THIS UP.
COMMISSIONER GREEN, YOU HAVE
ANYTHING YOU WANT TO ADD ABOUT
THAT I THOUGHT WAS VERY EYE
OPENING AND THE VIDEOS WERE
VERY HELPFUL AND WE COULD SEE
FOR OURSELVES WHAT WAS
HAPPENING AS OPPOSED TO BEING
TOLD WHAT HAPPENED.
AND LIKE YOU SAID, IT WAS
UNREDACTED.
IT WAS IN REAL TIME SO I
APPRECIATED IT.
I THANK YOU FOR ANDERSEN FOR
BEING SO TRANSPARENT AND ALLOW
US TO DO THAT BECAUSE I THINK
IT'S CRITICAL FOR US.
I DO.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER WHEN
YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO SAY.
>> YEAH, I THINK THE MEETING
WENT BEYOND TWO HOURS I BELIEVE
AND BECAUSE THEY WERE AT LEAST
FOUR OR FIVE OF THOSE
COMPLAINTS AND VIDEOS AND MANY
OF THEM WENT BEYOND HALF AN
HOUR EACH AND BUT THE IMPORTANT
PART WAS THE LOOKING AT THE
VIDEOS FROM OUTSIDE THE POLICE
EYES IS REALLY IMPORTANT
BECAUSE YES, WE AGREE WITH THE
FINDINGS BUT COMMISSIONER GREEN
SO SOME OTHER ASPECT AND ANGLE
TO THE VIDEO WHERE HE
RECOMMENDED THAT CAN BE USED AS
PART OF THE TRAINING OF OF THE
POLICE FOR THE SAFETY OF THE
POLICE OFFICERS AS WELL AS FOR
THE SAFETY OF THE CITIZENS.
>> AND AGAIN, WE APPRECIATE THE
POSITIVE RECEPTION AND PART
OF THE CHIEF AS WELL AS THE
COMMANDING OFFICERS OVER THERE.
>> SO THAT WAS A REALLY
IMPORTANT THING TO SEE IS YES,
THERE WERE NO KIND
OF VIOLATIONS AND ALL THESE
THINGS BUT THERE WERE ISSUES
THAT WERE RAISED THAT CAN BE
USED TO IN THE FUTURE TO MAKE
SURE THAT THE THE OFFICERS ARE
AWARE OF THEIR OWN SAFETY AS
WELL AS SAFETY OF THE CITIZENS
ARE DEALING WITH.
I THINK THAT IS AN INTERESTING
THING.
SO IT'S ALWAYS IMPORTANT TO
HAVE THAT TYPE OF OF ANOTHER
PAIR OF EYES OUTSIDE OF THE THE
PROFESSIONALS LOOKING AT THEM.
SO I FELT THAT WAS REALLY AN
INTERESTING THING JUST BECAUSE
IT WAS SO INTERESTING.
>> WE'RE SITTING THERE WATCHING
A COMPLAINT HAD TO DO WITH JUST
OUTSPOKEN BECAUSE I THINK IT'S
INTERESTING ENOUGH THAT WE
UNDERSTAND WHAT IT WAS THE
COMPLAINT THERE WAS SOMEONE WHO
CALLED THE POLICE FOR SOMEONE
WITH A GUN AND THE POLICE
OFFICER ARRIVED.
>> ONE OFFICER ARRIVED FIRST
AND THEN SOME OTHER OFFICERS
CAME.
>> THE PERSON WHO HAD WHO
SUPPOSEDLY HAD THE GUN WAS
DESCRIBED TO THE POLICE WHEN
THEY WHEN THE POLICE GOT THERE,
THERE WERE TWO MEN THERE, ONE
WHO FIT THE DESCRIPTION OF THE
PERSON AND AND SOMEONE WHO WAS
TALKING TO HIM AND THE POLICE
WENT UP TO THE PERSON WHO FIT
THE DESCRIPTION AND JUST TOLD
THIS OTHER GUY TO TO GET ON
BACK AND STAND OFF WHICH HE
DIDN'T RIGHT AWAY.
>> SO AND COMMISSIONER GREEN,
IT'S JUST IT WAS IT WAS SO KEEN
A PERCEPTION WHILE THEY'RE
FOCUSING ON THIS GUY HE COULD
HAVE GIVEN THE GUN TO THE OTHER
THEM BUT THEY THEY JUST ALMOST
TOTALLY IGNORED HIM.
AND SO THIS WAS THIS WAS A CASE
WHERE WE SAID MAYBE YOU WANT TO
SHOW THIS TO YOUR OFFICERS.
WHAT WAS THE COMPLAINT?
I'M SORRY.
SO THE COMPLAINT WAS
COMPLAINING ABOUT WHAT THE
OFFICER DID TO THAT PERSON THAT
THEY DESCRIBED?
>> YES.
YES.
THE THE COMPLAINT WAS THAT THE
POLICE CAME BRANDISHING WITH
THEIR GUNS AND ONE HAD A GUN
WITH ONE HAND AND ALL THESE
THINGS AND IT'S LIKE A
COMPLAINT NOT FROM THE THE THE
INDIVIDUAL WHO WERE HAD THE
DESCRIPTION BUT FROM ANOTHER
EMPLOYEE.
>> SOMEONE ELSE WAS BLACK THAT
WAS THAT WAS WATCHING AND
REGISTER THE COMPLAINT.
>> YEAH.
SO SO IT'S A GOOD THING THE
ONLY DRAWBACK THAT I SEE IS
THAT WE HAVE SOME OF THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS WHO WORK
AND THIS OBVIOUSLY HAS TO TAKE
PLACE DURING THE DAY.
SO YOU KNOW I GUESS WE CAN
STILL WORK ON THAT.
MAYBE IF YOU HAVE THE THE DATE
EARLY ENOUGH YOU KNOW YOU CAN
PLAN AROUND IT THOSE OF THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS WHO ARE
WORKING BUT WE THINK IT'S WE
THINK IT'S GOING TO WORK OK,
FINALLY EVERYBODY SHOULD HAVE
SEEN THE ANU THE DRAFT FINAL
DRAFT NOW OF THE ANNUAL REPORT
AND IF YOU DIDN'T HE DIDN'T
LOOK AT YOUR EMAIL.
>> SO I HAD A COUPLE OF THE
COMMISSIONERS RESPOND.
>> I APPRECIATE IT.
COMMISSIONER OTHMAN TOLD ME
ABOUT A DIFFERENT FORM
OF FORMATTING ISSUE WHICH I
THINK I'VE WORKED ON.
I DIDN'T DO ONE, TWO, THREE BUT
I DID BULLET POINTS AND
COMMISSIONER MILGROM IS GOING
TO GET ME SOME INFORMATION.
DID YOU DID YOU SEE IT IN WORD
I SENT IT OK?
I SENT IT NOT NOT THAT LONG AGO
SO AND I SAID I DIDN'T I
CERTAINLY DIDN'T EXPECT IT BY
TODAY BUT WE'D LIKE TO GET THE
FINAL FINAL BY THE END OF THE
WEEK AND THEN I'LL ASK MISS
CUMMINGS TO TO SEND IT ON TO
KIMBERLY MARK MORTENSEN ONE
MORE WHO'S JUST A REALLY
EXCELLENT DID AN EXCELLENT JOB
FOR US IN SETTING IT UP LAST
YEAR.
SO DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANYTHING
TODAY THEY'D LIKE TO ADD OR ANY
OTHER COMMENTS OR ANY OTHER
CORRECTIONS WE CAN MAKE UP?
>> AND I TOLD MISS YEAH.
>> I TOLD MISS CUMMINS I WOULD
GET IT TO HER AND SHE WAS HAPPY
AND SHE WAS I DON'T KNOW WHAT
WE DO WITHOUT HER BUT SHE WAS
GOOD TO GET US A DRAFT.
SO THIS IS SORT OF A FINAL
DRAFT BUT STILL A DRAFT.
>> SO TAKE IT HOME IF YOU NEED
IT IN WORD I CAN I CAN SEND
THAT TO YOU SO YOU CAN WORK ON
IT.
BUT PLEASE, WE WANT TO GET THIS
WRAPPED UP CLOSE OF BOOKS ON
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR.
>> OK, ANY COMMENTS TODAY.
>> OK, THAT IS ALL THAT I HAVE
AND SO WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON
THEN TO ALL BUSINESS.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY OLD BUSINESS
.
>> I TELL YOU I DID A LITTLE
BUSINESS ALL RIGHT WHAT WAS IT
OWN REPORTS FROM OK WELL WE'RE
JUST MOVING RIGHT ALONG WITH
ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE GOING TO GO TO COMMITTEES
COMMITTEE REPORTS, POLICY
COMMITTEE AND REPORTS OH JUST A
VERY BRIEF UPDATE.
WE'RE CONTINUING TO WORK ON THE
REVIEW OF ALL THE POLICIES
COMMISSIONER LOU HAS PROVIDED A
TEMPLATE FOR US AND IS WORKING
ON IT MUCH MORE DILIGENTLY THAN
I AM.
I'M DETERMINED TO CATCH UP TO
HER.
THE ONLY OTHER THING I WANTED
TO MENTION IS THE ON THE
REDACTION POLICY DRAFT.
LAST TIME WE HAD A BRIEF
DISCUSSION OF IT I HAD ASKED IF
IF ANYBODY HAD ANY OTHER
COMMENTS THEY COULD PROVIDE
THEM TO ME BY EMAIL OVER THE
OVER THE COURSE OF THE NEXT
MONTH AND I HAVEN'T HEARD
ANYTHING BACK SO I DON'T I
DON'T KNOW IF THAT MEANS THERE
ARE NO COMMENTS OR IF THERE ARE
ANY COMMENTS TO COME
.
THAT'S THAT'S FINE.
BUT IF NOT, I THINK YOU KNOW,
THE DEPARTMENT'S WAITED LONG
ENOUGH PROBABLY FOR FOR THE
VALLEY BACK AND SO WE COULD
PROBABLY IF THERE ARE NO
OBJECTIONS FROM ANYBODY AMONG
THE COMMISSIONERS THAT THE LAST
DRAFT THAT YOU SAW LAST MONTH I
THINK WE'LL WE'LL SUBMIT TO THE
TO THE DEPARTMENT WOULD YOU
MAKE A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THE LAST DRAFT OF THE NEW YES.
>> I WOULD MOVE THE DRAFT THAT
WAS SUBMITTED AND DISCUSSED
BRIEFLY AT OUR LAST MEETING
OF THE THE LAST VERSION OF THE
POLICY REDUCTION OR THE
REDACTION POLICY REVISION B BE
APPROVED TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE
DEPARTMENT.
IS THERE A SECOND PROBABLY A
BETTER WAY OF PHRASING THAT BUT
I SECOND SO THAT REDACTION
POLICY IS STILL GOING TO BE
IMPORTANT ALTHOUGH WE HAVE THIS
EVERY TWO MONTH SESSION WHERE
WE CAN LOOK AT THINGS
EVERYTHING DOESN'T NEED TO GO
IN THAT TO THAT.
>> WELL, I WAS I WAS ACTUALLY
GOING TO ASK HOW THAT OH THIS
THIS REVIEW YEAH.
PROCEDURE NOW AFFECTS AFFECTS
THAT SO IT'S NOT IF EVERY OTHER
MONTH INFORMATION MANAGERS ARE
ABLE TO ACTUALLY GO IN AND
SPEND TIME AND LOOK AT ALL THE
REPORTS EVERY REPORT UNREDACTED
I MEAN IT'S NOT TO SAY WE CAN'T
REVISE THE POLICY BASED ON
WHAT'S WHAT'S REASONABLE BUT IT
DOES SEEM LESS IMPORTANT.
>> RIGHT.
WHAT DO YOU THINK, VICE
CHAIRMAN?
I THINK I THINK ONE OF THE
ISSUES THAT WE HAVE IS WHEN THE
THE THE PROBLEM WAS BECAUSE
THERE WAS CHANGE OF PERSONNEL
AT THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
RIGHT.
AND THERE WAS A SERGEANT WHO
WAS BASICALLY IN CHARGE IN THE
PROVIDING US WITH REDACTED
VIDEOS AS WELL AS THE MATERIAL
NOW I THINK WE HAVE SOMEONE IN
PLACE AND THEY WILL WORK ON
THAT AND WILL PROVIDE WHAT THE
VIDEO IS.
NOW IF THERE ARE SOME VIDEOS
WHERE WE FEEL THAT THERE WERE
QUITE A BIT OF MISSING
INFORMATION AND IN THAT CASE WE
CAN PROBABLY DISCUSS THAT AT
OUR MEETINGS AS WELL.
SO I MEAN I GUESS THE ANSWER IS
RATHER THAN BE DEPENDENT ON
WHAT PERSONNEL HAPPENS TO BE,
YOU IN THE OFFICER BEFORE YOUR
TIME AND HOW THEY'RE GOING TO
MANAGE THINGS WE OUGHT TO HAVE
A POLICY IN PLACE THAT WOULD BE
AT LEAST THE FALLBACK IF OUT
THE FIRST POSITION GOING
FORWARD.
>> I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
HAVE THAT OK.
>> IT'S IMPORTANT TO OH TO
APPROVE THE REDACTION POLICY AS
PRESENTED AT OUR LAST MEETING
POLICY AND TO BE APPROVED AND
TO BE SUBMITTED, APPROVED AND
SUBMITTED TO THE TO THE
DEPARTMENT FOR THEIR
CONSIDERATION THEIR POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
YES.
MADAM, I'M SURE OK.
I KNOW A PERSON ON THE
COMMISSION I DON'T KNOW ALL
THESE THINGS.
I'M NOT SURE I'M UNDERSTANDING
WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT.
SO ARE WE TALKING ABOUT THE
REVIEW OF ALL THE POLICY OF THE
COMMISSION?
>> OK, TWO DIFFERENT THINGS.
TWO DIFFERENT THINGS.
OK, SO WE'RE HAPPY ANY TIME
SOMETHING THAT SAY WAIT A
MINUTE WE'RE HAPPY TO TO GO
BACK WE HAVE THE POLICY
COMMITTEE THAT IS REVIEWING ALL
OF THE POLICIES OF THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND THERE WAS A
PARTICULAR POLICY BECAUSE WE
WERE HAVING SOME DIFFICULTY
WITH THE INFORMATION MANAGERS
HAVE TO REVIEW THE COMPLAINTS
THAT COME IN FROM CITIZENS AND
PART OF THE REVIEW INCLUDES
READING ALL THE POLICE REPORTS
IN ABOUT WATCHING ANY WHITE
BODY WORN CAMERA VIDEO AND THEN
WE FILL OUT A FORM THAT TALKS
ABOUT I THINK WE'RE GOING TO
HEAR MORE ABOUT THAT FORM TODAY
AND AND ONCE THE INFORMATION
MANAGER HAS COMPLETED THEIR
REVIEW AND THEN WE'LL SEND THE
FORM TO THE CHAIR VICE VICE
CHAIR OF THE INFORMATION
MANAGERS AND THE VICE CHAIR
HERE, COMMISSIONER OFMAN AND HE
REVIEWS THEM AND THEN WE SEND
IT BACK TO THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
SO THAT'S A CASE BY CASE
CITIZEN COMPLAINT REVIEW
PROBLEM HAD OCCURRED IN ORDER
TO REVIEW CITIZEN COMPLAINTS WE
HAVE TO GET THE REPORT FROM THE
DEPARTMENT AND MANY TIMES THE
COMPLAINT THE I'M SORRY THE
REPORTS WERE HEAVILY REDACTED
THAT WE GOT AND WE FOUND IT
DIFFICULT TO EVEN FIGURE OUT
WHAT HAPPENED BECAUSE THERE WAS
SO MUCH REDACTION.
OK, SO WE'VE BEEN GOING BACK
AND FORTH FOR A WHILE NOW WITH
THE REDACTION POLICY TRYING TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE THAT WE CAN
DO OUR JOB AND REVIEW THE
REPORTS.
>> OK, SO THAT'S WHAT THIS THIS
PARTICULAR POLICY HAS TO DO
WITH WHAT CAN AND CANNOT BE
REDACTED.
ONE OF THE ISSUES THAT THAT WAS
HOLDING THE WHOLE PROCESS UP
JUST SO EVERYONE KNOWS
APPARENTLY WE WOULD GET THE
REPORTS BY IT'S NOT EMAIL WHAT
WHAT'S THIS WHAT'S A SYSTEM
THAT WE GET THE REPORTS FROM
THE POLICE REPORTS USING
SHAREPOINT.
SO WHAT WE WERE TOLD IS AT ANY
TIME THAT INFORMATION LEAVES
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT, IT COULD
BE CONSIDERED PUBLIC
INFORMATION.
SO WE DIDN'T WANT THE
DEPARTMENT DID NOT WANT THE
REPORTS TO BE PART OF THE
PUBLIC DOMAIN SO THAT AS I
UNDERSTAND IT WAS THEIR CONCERN
.
OUR CONCERN WAS HAVING ENOUGH
INFORMATION SO WE COULD FIGURE
WHAT WAS GOING ON.
SO THESE TRANSPARENCY MEETINGS
WILL HELP BUT WE DO STILL NEED
THE REDACTION POLICY.
>> I THINK I HAVE A QUESTION TO
MADAM CHAIR.
SO ARE THESE REPORTS SUBJECT
FOR YOU OR NOT REALLY GOOD
QUESTION.
>> SUBJECT TO THE FREEDOM
OF INFORMATION ACT ARE THE
UNREDACTED COPIES SUBJECT TO
FOR YOU?
>> YOU KNOW, I THINK WE WOULD
HAVE TO HAVE AN OPINION FROM
THE CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE.
OK, SO I I DON'T WANT TO SPEAK
TO THAT.
SO ANY MATERIAL THAT YOU GOT TO
PUT INTRODUCE YOURSELF.
>> I'M SORRY.
I'M LIEUTENANT NATALIE FROM
HANOVER PD IN CHARGE OF THE
PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS SECTION
.
JUST SOMETHING ON THE REDACTION
POLICY AND WHAT WE'RE WORKING
THROUGH WITH FOIA.
SO ANY TIME THAT ANY
INFORMATION LEAVES THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT IT IS SUBJECT TO
REDACTIONS UNDER FIRE WHICH IS
LIKE A LIKE A LEGAL STANDARD
OF WHAT INFORMATION CAN BE
RELEASED BASED ON PROTECTION
OF THE PEOPLE INVOLVED
REGARDING SENSITIVE INFORMATION
OR THEIR PERSONAL INFORMATION
OR THINGS OF THAT NATURE.
SO ANY DOCUMENTS THAT WE DO
SEND OUT INTO THE PUBLIC ARE
SUBJECT TO TAFOYA REDACTIONS.
>> AND AS I UNDERSTAND AND THIS
HAS BEEN MY ARGUMENT FOR MONTHS
THAT THE SAME RULES APPLY AS
FAR AS THE DEPARTMENT IS
CONCERNED TO IUPAC THAT THEY
WOULD APPLY TO RELEASE TO THE
PUBLIC AND SO BUT ARE YOU
SUGGESTING THOUGH THAT SINCE
THESE FOLKS CAME TO VISIT THE
DEPARTMENT IT HASN'T BEEN
RELEASED SO IT DOESN'T FALL
THEREFORE THEY DON'T FILE
BEFORE YOU HAVEN'T DISTRIBUTE
IT RIGHT OUTSIDE OF DEPARTMENT
CORRECT TO THEIR IN-HOUSE.
YEAH.
SOMETHING THAT WE WERE WORKING
ON DEVELOPING WITH THE
COMMISSION HERE TO HAVE THIS
TRANSPARENCY MEETING WHERE WE
CAN BRING EVERYONE INTO ONE
BUILDING WITHIN THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO TAKE A DEEP DOVE
AND TO LOOK AT EVERYTHING THAT
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT CONCERNING
THESE SITUATIONS.
>> YEAH, RIGHT.
RIGHT.
SO JUST TO GET SOME
CLARIFICATION.
YES, SIR.
SO ARE THE ITEMS THAT ARE SET
FOR YOU DE ARE THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT CAN REDACT TO A
CERTAIN EXTENT YES.
>> NO MAYBE YES.
THERE ARE REQUIREMENTS FOR THAT
GOVERNMENT MUST REALLY I MEAN
CORRECT.
>> YEP.
MUST REDACT OR KEN RUDIN WELL
BOTH I MEAN THERE ARE CERTAIN
THINGS THAT THEY MUST UNDER
UNDER FIRE THE WAY THAT THE
LAWYER SAID THAT'S WHY WELL LET
LET YOU SPEAK TO IT.
>> YEAH NO NO YOU'RE CORRECT.
ANY PLANS TO REDACT.
YES OK YEP BUT WE'RE WORK ON A
POLICY THAT ALLOWS A FEW OF US
TO COME IN AND LOOK AT THE
PLOT.
I'M SAYING LOOK LOOK AT THE
REPORTS UNREDACTED IN HOUSE AND
VIDEOS UNREDACTED AND I STILL
THINK THE POLICY AND NOT REALLY
SEPARATE FROM THAT BECAUSE
WITHIN THE POLICY AS WELL WE
WERE WORKING ON CREATING WAYS
TO ANONYMIZE INFORMATION AND
STILL WORKING WITHIN THE
PARAMETERS OF THE FOI
REDACTIONS THAT
WE HAVE TO HAVE
BUT STILL HAVE IT BE MORE
UNDERSTANDABLE WHEN READ BY THE
COMMISSIONERS.
>> RIGHT OK, YEAH WE AND THAT'S
WHY THE TRANSPARENCY MEETINGS
BECAUSE NOTHING IS BEING
RELEASED RIGHT.
>> SO WE'RE WORKING THROUGH IT.
WE HAD FOR INSTANCE THAT A
REPORT MIGHT READ BLANK TOLD
BLANK THAT THEY SAW A PLANE AND
YOU CAN'T MAKE COULDN'T MAKE
ANY SENSE OF IT WHEN WHAT THE
WHAT FAILURE REQUIRES IS A
RELEASE OF PERSONAL IDENTIFYING
INFORMATION SO THERE WAS ALSO
THERE WAS ALSO A PROCESS WHERE
THEY WOULD IDENTIFY THE
DEPARTMENT WOULD IDENTIFY
SUSPECT ONE WITNESS ONE WITNESS
TO SO AT LEAST IT MADE SENSE.
>> OK, SO YOU CAN IT'S QUITE A
PROCESS THAT WE'RE WORKING
THROUGH.
>> WE APPRECIATE THE
DEPARTMENT'S COOPERATION BUT
BECAUSE WE WE'VE GOT TO BE ABLE
TO DO OUR JOB.
THANK YOU.
OK, ANYTHING ANY KNOW ANYTHING
ELSE ABOUT THE THE REDACTION
POLICY WE'VE BEEN GOING BACK
AND FORTH.
THEY'VE SENT US A COUPLE DRAFTS
.
>> SEND THEM BACK ANOTHER
DRAFT.
WE'LL SEE WHAT HAPPENS.
A QUESTION MORE ON THAT ABOUT
THE REDACTION POLICY.
BUT IN REFERENCE TO WHEN WE
WENT THROUGH THE NACOLE THIS
OCTOBER , IT SEEMS LIKE A LOT
OF OTHER COMMISSIONERS ARE ABLE
TO SHARE WITH THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT THE COMPLAINTS AND MAKE
THAT KNOWN WITHIN THE COMMUNITY
.
WE ARE NOT ABLE TO DO THAT
BECAUSE OF WHAT WE JUST
DISCUSSED OR WELL, YOU KNOW AND
I THINK IT WAS THE CITY
OF DETROIT THAT THAT ON THEIR
DASHBOARD STARTED PUTTING UP
THE COMPLAINTS BUT IT WAS IT
WASN'T WITHOUT REDACTION.
>> I THINK THE OFFICER'S NAME
INVOLVED WAS WAS NOT INCLUDED
ON A PUBLIC DASHBOARD AND SOME
OTHER INFORMATION BUT YEAH,
YOU'RE RIGHT, THERE ARE OTHER
OVERSIGHT BODIES THAT HAVE
DIFFERENT AND THEN SOME
ERENDIRA STATES AS WELL.
>> SO THE OTHER THING IS ALSO
IT DEPENDS ON WHO WAS FILING
THE COMPLAINT AND THROUGH OTHER
AIRPARK OR THROUGH THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT IF IT IF IT CAME
THROUGH XPAC MEANING THAT WE
KNOW INDIVIDUALS SO WE ARE NOT
GOING TO BE REDACTED AND WHEN
WE GET BACK WE'LL GET THE
INFORMATION NOW IF IT'S GOING
TO BE THROUGH THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT, WE HAVE NO THERE'S
NO LIKE HINTS TO THE PERSON
INFORMATION WHO HAD THE
COMPLAINT ETC. SO THERE WOULD
BE NO MORE REDACTIONS AND THE
WHEN THE COMPLAINTS ARE FILED
DIRECTLY WITH THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
SO THERE ARE SOME SOME MINOR
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE TWO.
>> I GUESS MY THING IS BEING
ABLE TO GIVE ACCOUNTABILITY FOR
THOSE OFFICERS THAT ARE
CONTINUING DOING THINGS AND TO
BE ABLE TO SEE THAT THIS
OFFICER IS ALWAYS HAVING THESE
TYPE OF COMPLAINTS OR OVER, YOU
KNOW, THE FORCE COMPLAINTS AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO NOT BEING ABLE TO HONE IN ON
THAT ASPECT OF THINGS.
>> THERE IS THERE IS A METHOD
THAT HAS BEEN WORKED OUT WHERE
BY NO WE DON'T KNOW THE
OFFICERS NAME BUT IT'S IT IS
VALID UNDER THE OFFICERS.
>> NO.
SO THAT WE AS I UNDERSTAND IT,
WE SHOULD BE ABLE TO SEE IF ANY
PARTICULAR OFFICER HAS A NUMBER
OF COMPLAINTS AND WE CAN SEE
THAT AGAIN THAT WE DON'T HAVE
THE OFFICER'S NAME BUT WE HAVE
THE NUMBER THAT'S ASSIGNED AND
THAT'S NOT THEIR BADGE NUMBER.
THAT'S THE NUMBER THAT'S
ASSIGNED IN THIS WHOLE PROCESS
TO THAT OFFICER.
SO AND THE DEPARTMENT ALSO
KEEPS ITS AS WE UNDERSTAND IT
KEEPS TRACK OF THE NUMBER
OF COMPLAINTS THAT COME IN
ABOUT AN OFFICER.
SO THAT IS BEING TRACKED.
>> SO JUST ONE QUICK QUESTION.
SO IF A NUMBER IS ASSIGNED TO
AN OFFICER, IF THERE'S A
PATTERN OF OBVIOUS ABUSE BY
THAT OFFICER, IS THERE SOME
POINT WHERE WE CAN FIND OUT
DISCLOSURE AS TO WHO THIS
OFFICER IS BECAUSE WE NEVER
KNOW WHO THE OFFICER IS.
IT DOESN'T HELP.
RIGHT.
WE I DON'T I DON'T THINK WE'VE
ACTUALLY GOTTEN THERE YET IN
TERMS OF BEING ABLE TO SEE A
PATTERN WITH ANY PARTICULAR
OFFICER.
I KNOW WE ARE CAPABLE OF SEEING
THIS SUGGESTING YOU KNOW, THAT
AT SOME POINT IF THERE IS SOME
ABUSE BY AN OFFICER, WE NEED TO
KNOW WHO THAT OFFICER IS RIGHT
NOW.
I AGREE.
AND TO THAT POINT, IF THERE IS
EXCESSIVE ABUSE BY AN OFFICER,
WOULD WE BE ABLE TO SEE WHAT
STEPS THE DEPARTMENT HAS TAKEN
IN DISCIPLINING THAT OFFICER?
>> I THINK FROM WHAT WE GOT
FROM OUR MEETINGS IS WE ASKED
THAT QUESTION IS WHEN THERE IS
A SUSTAINED FINDING, WHAT ARE
THE CORRECTIVE MEASURES THAT
THE POLICE IS APPLYING TOWARDS
THE ANY OF THE OFFICERS WHO WAS
MADE TO BE NOT AT FAULT BUT HE
MAYBE DID NOT FOLLOW THE
POLICIES.
THE COMPLAINT WAS WAS SUSTAINED
,ET CETERA.
AND AND WE ARE NOT GOING TO
KNOW EXACTLY WHAT THEY DO
BECAUSE THERE ARE SOME OTHER
ISSUES RELATED TO CORRECTIVE
BARGAINING LAWS CETERA.
BUT I THINK THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT KEEPS ON THE
OFFICERS AND ALSO THEY HAVE
PROBABLY DIFFERENT DEGREES
OF DISCIPLINE WITH A RETURN
WITH WARNING WHETHER MAYBE A
WEEK WITHOUT PAY I THINK
PROBABLY LIEUTENANT, CAN YOU
PLEASE TELL US A LITTLE BIT
YOU'RE MORE FAMILIAR WITH THIS
THAN US?
>> YES.
SO BEFORE YOU ANSWER THAT
QUESTION, LIEUTENANT, SO
FOLLOWING UP ON THAT ONE, ARE
THERE POLICIES WRITTEN WITHIN
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT THAT
WOULD ADDRESS X NUMBER OF I
DON'T WANT TO SAY OFFENSES BUT
LACK OF A BETTER WORD OFFENSES
THAT A POLICE OFFICER HAS OR
CITATIONS OR WHATEVER YOU WOULD
CALL IT THAT A POLICE OFFICER
WOULD HAVE?
>> ARE THERE POLICIES THAT
ADDRESS THAT AND I'LL LEAVE IT
AT THAT FOR RIGHT NOW.
>> YES.
SO COVER COVER A COUPLE
OF DIFFERENT THINGS.
SO WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT WE DO
TRACK ALL DISCIPLINARY HISTORY
OF ALL THE OFFICERS THAT WE DO
HAVE AND THEN THAT IS TRACK
STATISTICALLY ALSO I KNOW AT
JUST PREVIOUS MEETINGS THAT
WE'VE HAD WE'VE TALKED ABOUT
NEW COMPLAINT MANAGEMENT
SOFTWARE THAT THE DEPARTMENT IS
GOING TO BE INTRODUCING HERE IN
A COUPLE OF WEEKS.
I PRO AND BLUE TEAMS THIS IS
GOING TO GIVE US AN EVEN BETTER
ABILITY TO TRACK OFFICERS
BEHAVIORS WHETHER IT'S
COMPLAINTS, USE OF FORCE,
THINGS LIKE THAT AND AN EVEN
GREATER ABILITY TO GENERATE
REPORTS TO BE ABLE TO TRACK
THAT TYPE OF THING.
I KNOW WE'RE GOING TO WORK
TOGETHER WITH THE COMMISSION TO
HAVE REGULARLY SCHEDULED
REPORTS THAT ARE GENERATED AND
PROVIDED SO THAT THE STATISTICS
ARE AVAILABLE AND THEN ALONG
THE LINE OF WHAT YOU'RE ASKING
AS FAR AS POLICIES WITHIN THE
DEPARTMENT AS FAR AS MULTIPLE
INFRACTIONS OR THINGS OF THAT
NATURE, THERE IS PROGRESSIVE
DISCIPLINE THAT THAT IS WITHIN
POLICY.
SO IF SOMETHING IS DONE ONCE OR
THEN REPEATED IT WOULD HAVE A
KIND OF ESCALATING PROGRESSION
OF WHAT DISCIPLINE WOULD BE
ASSOCIATED WITH THAT OFFICER.
>> YOU KNOW, PART OF THE ISSUE
I UNDERSTAND THAT THE
DEPARTMENT KEEPS RECORDS
OF DISCIPLINE BUT IF WE'RE
LOOKING AT COMPLAINTS THAT
DIDN'T NECESSARILY RESULT IN
THE OFFICER RECEIVING ANY TYPE
OF DISCIPLINE BUT IF WE SEE A
PATTERN OF COMPLAINTS OF THE
SAME NATURE AGAINST A
PARTICULAR OFFICER, ARE THOSE
ARE COMPLAINTS ALSO KEPT?
>> YES.
THERE'S ALSO CAP AND TRADE AS
WELL.
YES, THANK YOU.
NOW YOU KNOW WE HAD THIS COME
UP BECAUSE WE AS CITIZENS FILED
A COMPLAINT.
THE COMPLAINT WAS SUSTAINED.
WE AGREED THIS SHOULDN'T HAPPEN
AND WE LET THE DEPARTMENT KNOW
THAT AND THE DEPARTMENT TOLD US
WE HAVE AN APPROPRIATE
DISCIPLINE HAS BEEN
ADMINISTERED.
>> SO WE MET WE TALKED ABOUT
THAT BECAUSE WHILE THE IN THIS
CASE THE CITIZEN WANTED TO KNOW
WHAT WAS THE DISCIPLINE.
SO WHAT WAS EXPLAINED TO US IS
THAT IF AN OFFICER IS
DISCIPLINED THAT GOES INTO THAT
OFFICER'S PERSONNEL FILE AND
THAT PERSONNEL INFORMATION IS
CANNOT BE MADE PUBLIC.
SO THAT WAS KIND OF THE THE
ISSUE.
BUT WHAT WE SAID WAS WE CAN'T
EVEN SEE IT SO WE CAN'T REALLY
ASSURE THAT THE PUBLIC THE
COMPLAINANT THAT WE BELIEVE
APPROPRIATE DISCIPLINE AND PART
OF WHAT OUR CHARGE IS
IS TO
REVIEW THE DISCIPLINE THAT IS
HANDED OUT BY THE DEPARTMENT
WHICH WE CAN'T DO IF WE DON'T
KNOW WHAT IT IS.
SO WE WE TALKED ABOUT THIS WITH
WITH THE DEPARTMENT AND THAT IS
A POLICY THAT NEEDS WORK AND
AND I THINK AT THE TIME WE
TALKED ABOUT IT, THE DEPARTMENT
AGREED THAT AT LEAST IT SHOULD
BE ABLE TO KNOW WHAT THE WHAT
THE DISCIPLINE WAS.
SO I'M ASKING THE POLICY
COMMITTEE TO I DON'T KNOW WHAT
WHAT THE POLICY IS BUT I KNOW
YOU ALL ARE FAMILIAR WITH THE
POLICIES.
YOU CAN FIND THAT ONE THAT
DEALS WITH NOTIFICATION OF THE
TYPE OF DISCIPLINE BUT AND
WE'LL TAKE A LOOK.
I THINK WE PROBABLY NEED TO
RESTRUCTURE AT LEAST SUBMIT
SOME KIND OF RESTRUCTURING THAT
THINGS SO THIS MAY BE OFF TRACK
OR I DON'T KNOW BUT WHAT JUST
CAME INTO MY HEAD IS WHEN
POLICE CANDIDATES OR POLICE
OFFICERS ARE MOVING FROM ONE
JURISDICTION TO ANOTHER OR FROM
ONE POLICE DEPARTMENT TO
ANOTHER POLICE DEPARTMENT.
SO IF THERE'S SOMEBODY FROM I
DON'T KNOW MINNESOTA AND HAS
MOVED HERE AND WANTS TO BE A
POLICE OFFICER BUT THAT PERSON
I GUESS MY QUESTION IS IS THERE
A WAY TO CHECK THAT PERSON AND
SEE IF THERE HAVE EVER BEEN ANY
COMPLAINTS AGAINST THAT PERSON
AS AN OFFICER IN ANOTHER
JURISDICTION BEFORE COMING HERE
IS THAT INFORMATION AVAILABLE
IN BETWEEN DEPARTMENTS?
SO YEAH, IT'S NOT NECESSARILY
WITHIN MY AREA OF EXPERTIZE
WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT BUT
WHENEVER AN APPLICANT APPLIES
TO THE DEPARTMENT THERE'S
THOROUGH BACKGROUND
INVESTIGATION THAT'S PERFORMED
ON THEM WHICH WOULD INVOLVE ANY
PRIOR DEPARTMENTS THEY'VE
WORKED FOR OR ANYTHING LIKE
THAT AND THAT'S WHEN THAT POINT
IN TIME THAT INFORMATION WOULD
BE TURNED OVER TO THE
DEPARTMENT FOR CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU.
I HAVE A QUESTION FOR YOU TO GO
BACK TO THE SITUATION WHERE THE
COMPLAINANT WANTED TO KNOW WHAT
WAS DONE TO THE FIRE AS THE
OFFICER.
>> SO HOW DO WE REASSURE THE
COMMUNITY THAT THINGS WHEN THEY
BRING A COMPLAINT THAT IT IN
FACT IS BEING HANDLED AND THEN
WHEN IT IS HANDLED TO WHAT
EXTENT IF WE CAN'T GIVE THEM
ANY INFORMATION?
>> I DON'T THINK WE CAN.
I MEAN THAT MAKES NO WHY WOULD
FILE A COMPLAINT IF I DON'T
EVEN FEEL LIKE THE OFFICER I
WON'T NEVER KNOW.
SOMETHING'S NOT RIGHT THAT I
JUST ASSUME THAT THEY'RE GOING
TO BE HONEST ABOUT SOMETHING
BEING DONE.
>> I THINK WHAT THEY DO IS WHEN
WHEN WILL WE ASK THE SAME
QUESTION IS ABOUT THE
CORRECTIVE ACTIONS AND WE WERE
TOLD THAT YES, IF THERE'S A
SUSTAINED COMPLAINT THERE IS
GOING TO BE SOME KIND
OF CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN BY
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT TOWARDS
THAT OFFICER.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT IT IS.
IT'S IT'S UP TO BUT IF I HAVE A
STATUS AT ALL WHAT WE ALL WHAT
WE HAVE INFORMATION ABOUT IS
YES, CORRECTIVE ACTION WAS
TAKEN BY THE BY THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT TOWARDS THE OFFICER
.
THIS IS WHAT WE CAN SEE.
WE HAVE NO JURISDICTION OVER
WHAT THE DISCIPLINE IS OR
SHOULD BE OR WHAT THEY ARE OR
WHAT WE CAN DO IS WE CAN ASK
WAS THERE ANY KIND OF ACTION ON
THE PART OF THE DEPARTMENT AND
THE ANSWER AND THE ANSWER WOULD
BE ALWAYS YES.
BUT WE HAVE NO IDEA ABOUT THE
NATURE OF THE ACTIONS TAKEN
AGAINST THE POLICE OFFICER,
WHICH IS WHY WE NEED THE POLICY
CHANGED IN THIS IN THE INSTANCE
THAT WE TALK ABOUT WHERE THE
CITIZEN WANTED TO KNOW WHAT
DISCIPLINE WAS AND ALL WE COULD
SAYING TO AND WE DO REPORT ALL
WE COULD SAY TO THAT
COMPLAINANT IS YOUR COMPLAINT
WAS SUSTAINED AND WE ARE
INFORMED THAT APPROPRIATE
DISCIPLINE WAS TAKEN.
WE WOULD AT LEAST LIKE TO BE IN
THE POSITION TO SAY YOUR
COMPLAINT WAS SUSTAINED.
WE HAVE REVIEWED THE DISCIPLINE
AND WE BELIEVE THAT WAS
APPROPRIATE.
WE TO SAY THAT NOW BECAUSE WE
DON'T KNOW MORE SO THAT'S WHY
THAT POLICY AT LEAST WE SHOULD
BE ABLE TO GET THAT PART WHERE
WE CAN ASSURE THE COMPLAINANT
THAT WE BELIEVE THE DISCIPLINE
WAS APPROPRIATE THEN AND JUST
IN DEFENSE OF THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT, YOU KNOW, THERE ARE
SOME PRIVACY CONCERNS AND I
THINK THAT THEY ARE ENTITLED TO
I DON'T THINK THAT ANY EMPLOYEE
WHETHER THERE ARE POLICE
DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEE OR EMPLOYEE
OF ANY GOVERNMENT AGENCY ONCE
ALL OF THE BUSINESS AND THE
STREET SO TO SPEAK AND
CERTAINLY THINGS THAT ARE PART
OF THEIR PERSONNEL FILE SHOULD
NOT NECESSARILY BECOME PUBLIC
INFORMATION BUT
TO MY SISTER
COMMISSIONERS ARGUING THAT
THERE SHOULD BE SOME RESPONSE
TO THE COMPLAINT THAT SOMETHING
WAS DONE, WE REVIEWED IT AND WE
BELIEVE THAT THE SANCTION WAS
APPROPRIATE AND IF WE DON'T
BELIEVE FOR WHATEVER REASON IF
WE DON'T BELIEVE IT WAS
APPROPRIATE, THEN WE CAN
DISCUSS IT LIVE WITH IT WITH
THE DEPARTMENT.
SO THE POLICY COMMITTEE WILL
OBVIOUSLY LOOK INTO THIS.
I DON'T KNOW OFFHAND WHAT IT
MAY BE COMMISSIONER LOU DOES IF
YOU HAPPEN TO SEE THIS AND
REMEMBER IT BUT THAT'S FINE,
YOU KNOW, SO WE'LL LOOK INTO
WHAT THE AND MAYBE IF THE
LIEUTENANT WANTS TO SHED ANY
LIGHT ON THIS AT ALL, THAT'S
FINE IF NOT, THAT'S FINE TOO.
BUT BECAUSE WE'LL LOOK INTO IT
BUT SO WILL DETERMINE WHAT
WHAT'S DESCRIBED IN TERMS
OF WHEN AND HOW FOLKS ARE
OFFICERS ARE DISCIPLINED.
YOU KNOW, THE LIEUTENANT SPOKE
TO LEVELS OF DISCIPLINE FOR
MORE THAN ONE OFFENSE AND THEN
AND I'M A PRETTY SURE I'VE SEEN
SOMETHING ABOUT THIS IN THERE.
I DON'T RECALL IT BUT I'M
FAIRLY CERTAIN THERE'S PROBABLY
NOT AN ADDITIONAL SECTION FOR
DISCLOSURE TO IT.
BUT IF THERE IS GREAT AND IF
THERE ISN'T, WE'LL ASK FOR THAT
RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
DID WE EVER GO SEE ARE SO SO WE
ARE WE ARE LOOKING AT THERE'S
BEEN A MOTION IT'S BEEN MOVED
AND SECONDED THAT THE UPDATED
THANK YOU.
>> ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION ON
THAT MOTION IF NOT ALL IN
FAVOR?
>> I ANY OPPOSED.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THAT MOTION CARRIES THANK YOU
TO THE POLICY COMMITTEE
TRAINING COMMITTEE.
ANY REPORT TODAY?
OK, AGAIN THOUGH WE WANT TO
COMMISSIONER HAYNES HAS BEEN
KIND ENOUGH TO SHOW US BRING US
A COPY OF THIS FLIER AND SO WE
ARE ASKED THIS ONE DOESN'T MRS.
ENROLLEE DEAL WITH THE ANN
ARBOR POLICE DEPARTMENT THAT
PITTSFIELD COMMANDER RUSH FROM
THE COUNTY IS GOING TO BE ON
THIS PANEL DEALING WITH
COMMUNITY POLICING?
>> WELL, THERE WILL BE A
REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE ANN
ARBOR POLICE DEPARTMENT AS WELL
ON THE PANEL.
SO AGAIN, IF ANYONE CAN CAN GO
,I CERTAINLY WOULD BE THERE
BUT I HAVE ANOTHER ENGAGEMENT
THAT SAME DATE AND TIME.
SO PLEASE TAKE A LOOK AT THAT
AND WE LOOK FORWARD TO HEARING
MORE ABOUT WHAT'S THE TRAINING,
THE TRAINING, THE TRAINING BUT
ALSO THE OTHER EVENT THAT'S
COMING UP IN THE SPRING.
YES.
OK, THANK YOU.
OUTREACH COMMITTEE.
>> UH, THANK YOU.
WE ARE SO FIRST AND FOREMOST
PLEASE CHECK YOUR EMAILS.
I SENT EMAIL REQUEST FOR OUR
SOCIAL MEDIA COMMISSIONER
PROFILES AND IF YOU JUST GIVE
BACK TO ME THAT WOULD BE
WONDERFUL.
SO WE'RE MOVING FORWARD WITH
THAT.
SOME OF YOU WHO DID SEND YOUR
INFO.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
MOVING FORWARD WITH OUR
SYMPOSIUM OR SOCIAL JUSTICE
SYMPOSIUM RIGHT NOW WE'RE
THINKING ABOUT HAVING IT MAY 26
.
IT IS A THURSDAY.
THINK ABOUT IT.
IF THERE'S ANY BIG OBJECTIONS,
LET ME KNOW THIS NEXT WEEK AND
WE CAN STILL MOVE IT AROUND A
BIT AND THAT'LL BE IT.
YES, SHOULD BE AT MALTZ CREEK.
I'LL BE TALKING WITH PRESS
TOMORROW ABOUT ABOUT A
COMMITTEE FOR ABOUT THE
SYMPOSIUM AND NOW WE'RE SORT
OF RECRUITING SPEAKERS.
WE HAVE TO HAVE CONFIRMED AND
LOOKING TO GET ONE TO TWO MORE
AND THEN WE'LL START
ADVERTISING AND PROMOTING AND
ONCE WE BEGIN THAT I
WILL BE
REACHING OUT TO ALL OF YOU FOR
HELP DISSEMINATING THE WORD AND
ALSO ANY SORT OF SUGGESTIONS
THAT ANYONE HAS IN THE
MEANTIME, PLEASE FEEL FREE TO
EMAIL ME HAPPY TO DISCUSS TO
DISCUSS ANY IDEAS AND I WAS
ABLE OH I DO WANT TO TALK TO
SOMEBODY ABOUT LIVE STREAMING
IT SO POSSIBLY ARE PEOPLE IN
THE ETHER RIGHT NOW IF WE COULD
LIVE STREAM IT THAT'D BE
WONDERFUL BECAUSE THERE ARE
PEOPLE OVERSEAS WHO I BELIEVE
WOULD WANT TO TO VIEW AND WE
DID RECEIVE I REACHED OUT TO
AND WE RECEIVED THE OFFICIAL
SORT OF BLESSING FROM JUDE'S
FAMILY TO PROCEED IN HER NAME
AND THEY ARE HAPPY THAT HER
NAME IS GOING TO BE ATTACHED TO
DOING GOOD IN THE COMMUNITY
OFFICIALLY.
SO THAT'S WHERE WE ARE AS
OF RIGHT NOW.
NOW IS THIS I KNOW WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT SOCIAL JUSTICE.
IS THERE GOING TO BE ANY KIND
OF EMPHASIS DAY ON POLICE OR
JUSTICE, CRIMINAL JUSTICE OR
ANYTHING LIKE THAT RIGHT NOW
KIND OF BUILDING THE THEME
AROUND THE PRESENTERS SO THERE
WILL BE THERE WILL BE ISSUES
RELATED TO POLICE OVERSIGHT AND
COMMUNITY POLICING.
BUT I ALSO HAVE RIGHT NOW ONE
OF THE SPEAKERS IS ACTUALLY A
GRADUATE STUDENT IN MY LAB AND
SHE'S VERY TALENTED AND IN
CHEYENNE GARCIA AND SHE'S GOING
TO BE TALKING ABOUT SOME OF HER
RESEARCH BUT ALSO PAST WORK
THAT SHE HAS DONE IN HOUSING
AND SPECIFICALLY SHE'S GOING TO
TALK ABOUT OLDER ADULTS AND
HOMELESSNESS WHICH IS VERY REAL
EPIDEMIC RIGHT NOW AND
INTERACTIONS WITH POLICE IN
REGARD TO THEIR HOUSING
INSECURITY.
SO WE'RE TRYING TO GET A WIDE
VARIETY OF TOPICS AS WELL.
I DON'T KNOW IF THIS FITS OR
NOT AND I'M I WILL GIVE YOU
THIS NAME.
>> THERE'S A PROFESSOR AT U
OF M WHO HAS DONE WORK AND I I
ACTUALLY TALKED TO HIM ABOUT
COMING TO PRESENT TO AIPA BUT
HIS RESEARCH HAS TO DO WITH
LANGUAGE AND I'M VERY CONCERNED
ABOUT HOW WE SPEAK TO ONE
ANOTHER AND THAT IT MAKES A
DIFFERENCE HOW WE SPEAK TO ONE
THEY ACTUALLY DID RESEARCH IN
AND THROUGH BODY WORN CAMERA
INFORMATION THEY COULD PREDICT
THE OUTCOME OF A POLICE STOP
BASED ON THE LANGUAGE INITIALLY
USED WHEN THE POLICE STOPPED
THE MOVEMENT IF IT WAS GOING TO
TURN VIOLENT, IF IT WAS GOING
TO TURN BAD AND LITTLE THINGS
LIKE THE WAY THAT THE OFFICER
ADDRESSED THE CITIZEN, I THINK
A LOT OF THAT WE HAVE LOOKED AT
IN CONNECTION WITH WITH A
PRIVATE WILDY AND ALSO THE
CHIEF'S NEW DIRECTIVE THAT WE
TALKED ABOUT AT THE LAST
MEETING WHICH REQUIRES OFFICERS
TO IDENTIFY THEMSELVES AND TELL
THE MOTORIST WHY THEY HAVE BEEN
STOPPED.
WE KNOW THAT IS NOW THAT'S NOW
A POLICY FOR THE DEPARTMENT.
BUT ANYWAY, I THOUGHT IT WAS
INTERESTING DEFINITELY IS THIS
THE PSYCHOLOGY PROFESSOR?
I'M NOT SURE WHAT DEPARTMENT
THAT WOULD BE WONDERFUL.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
YES, QUESTIONS.
GO AHEAD.
THANK YOU.
IS IS THIS IS THIS INTENDED TO
BE A MEETING AS WELL?
CORRECT.
WOULD WE BE NOT MAYBE IT'S OK.
AS OF RIGHT NOW OK.
I DIDN'T WANT TO CO-OPT ONE
OF THE MEETINGS BUT SO WE HAVE
A I MEAN YOU KNOW, WHEN WE DID
THE OTHER ONE AT THE AT THE
WESTGATE LIBRARY WE DID WAS A
MEETING.
IT'S FINE.
I MEAN WE'LL HAVE A MEETING I
GUESS THE NEXT WEEK PROBABLY.
RIGHT.
OK, AND THEN CAN YOU SHARE WHO
THE OTHER YOU HAVE ONE OTHER
SPEAKER YOU SAID SO WELL I HAD
TALKED TO DR. KARPIAK A WHILE
BACK AND HE INDICATED GOD IS
ENTHUSIASM TO TAKE PART AND AS
LONG AS IT REMAINS OKAY.
THANKS THANKS FOR YOUR WORK ON
THIS.
>> THANK YOU MR. GREEN.
>> YES, MADAM CHAIR, YOU TALKED
ABOUT THE IMPACT OF LANGUAGE IN
AN ENCOUNTER THAT SEEMS TO
RELATE TO TRAINING IS PART
OF OUR FUNCTION AND PART
OF MAKING A SUGGESTION TO THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT AS TO WHAT
TRAINING SHOULD LOOK LIKE.
IS THAT PART OF THE TRAINING
COMMITTEE'S OBLIGATION?
>> YES.
YES.
AND WE HAD OVER THE LAST YEAR
WELL AT LEAST SINCE A NEW CHIEF
CAME WE HAVE BEEN TALKING TO
THEM ABOUT OK, SO WE WOULD LIKE
TO SIT IN ON TRAINING AND JUST
SEE WHAT WHAT'S HAPPENING.
WE HAVE BEEN TOLD THAT THAT IS
NOT GOOD FOR THE TRAINING
CLASS.
I GET THAT.
SO WE'RE LOOKING AT WAYS TO
REVIEW WHAT THE TRAINING IS AND
THERE THREE SPECIFIC AREAS THAT
WE WERE INTERESTED IN SO FAR WE
JUST I THINK THAT I THINK THE
DEPARTMENT IS WILLING TO SIT
DOWN WITH US BUT WE JUST
HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO TO GET IT
DONE.
>> YOU KNOW, WE HAVE NOT AND
WE'RE STILL WORKING ON BEING
ABLE TO SOLIDIFY A DATE WHEN WE
COULD GO IN AND ACTUALLY SPEAK
WITH AND SEE WHAT TRAINING
MATERIAL TOOLS ARE AVAILABLE.
>> WE'VE LOOKED AT
DE-ESCALATION AND LANGUAGE IS
PART OF THAT.
>> SO WE WILL BE DEALING WITH
THAT.
WE'VE LOOKED AT FACIAL
RECOGNITION AND TALKING ABOUT
IF THAT IS BEING USED AND HOW
IT'S BEING USED AND WE'RE ALSO
THINKING ABOUT MENTAL HEALTH
AND HOW THEY ADDRESS PEOPLE
THAT ARE GOING THROUGH MENTAL
HEALTH ISSUES AND HOW THE
POLICE ARE ADDRESSING THAT,
WHETHER OR NOT THEY WILL BRING
IN A PROFESSIONAL TO HELP WITH
THAT, JUST WHAT IS THE
TRAINING?
SO THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
TOPICS THAT WE ARE LOOKING AT
HAVING AND AS WELL THERE MIGHT
BE SOME BIAS TRAINING INCLUDED
IN THAT PACKAGE.
YES, MAYBE IT IS.
>> AND ONE OF THE RECOMMENDED
ACTIONS AGAIN IN OUR IN OUR
ANNUAL REPORT WE LISTED SOME
SPECIFICS THAT WE WERE
REQUESTING TRAINING ON AND BIAS
.
SURE.
ONE OF THEM IS PART OF THEIR
IMPLICIT BIAS.
>> RIGHT.
THANK YOU TO ALL RIGHT.
>> INFORMATION MANAGERS.
THANK YOU, MADAM CHAIR.
I THINK THAT THEY PROBABLY WERE
GOING TO BE DISCUSSING A COUPLE
OF THINGS.
ONE IS THE NUMBER OF THE
COMPLAINTS AND THE SECOND ONE
IS THE UPDATE OF THE TEMPLATE
FOR THE REPORT AND I HAVE A FEW
THINGS TO SAY ABOUT NUMBERING
AS OF TODAY OUR NUMBER IS
WHOEVER IS RECEIVING THE
COMPLAINT WILL GIVE A NUMBER SO
THE POLICE REPORT WILL HAVE A
NUMBER AND THE BACKLOG WILL
HAVE A NUMBER SOMETIMES REALLY
HARD TO RECONCILE BETWEEN THE
TWO BECAUSE YOU COULD HAVE A NO
NO NO ONE WAS FIRED BY
DEPARTMENT, NO ONE FILED BY
XPAC.
>> SO THERE ARE SOME DESIGNATES
THE NUMBER THAT TO DISTINGUISH
BETWEEN THE TWO BUT WHEN YOU
LOOK AT THE LOG FILE THAT WE
RECEIVE, YOU HAVE TWO COLUMNS,
ONE FROM THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
,ONE FROM XPAC WOULD LIKE
SUGGEST OVER HERE IS TO HAVE
UNIFORM NUMBERING WHERE WE CAN
HAVE THE NUMBER SEQUENTIAL IT'S
LIKE THROW ONE TO 100 COULD BE
A NUMBER ONE TWO THREE FIVE
CAME FROM COULD BE NUMBER TWO
SEVEN TEN CAME FROM THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT SO WE CAN TELL THEM
ONE AFTER THE OTHER HOW WE CAN
DISTINGUISH BETWEEN THE TWO
EACH NUMBER WILL START WITH C
WHICH IS CITIZEN COMPLAINT THE
LAST TWO DIGITS OF THE YEAR
TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO ONE
ALL THE WAY DOWN TO WHATEVER
NUMBER WE CAN GO TO AND DASH.
I SEE MEANING THAT THE FILE WAS
FILED OF THE COMPLAINT WAS
FILED BY A CLERK OR THE
PERSONNEL COMPLAINT THAT WAS
FILED DIRECTLY THROUGH THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT SO THAT WOULD
MAKE IT A LITTLE BIT EASIER AND
WE WILL HAVE THE FILE AVAILABLE
FOR BOTH AIRPARK THE CUMMING'S
AS WELL AS THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
SO WE ARE NOT GOING TO
HAVE ANY
ISSUE WITH WHICH NUMBER WE ARE
GOING TO USE FOR THIS COMPLAINT
AND THAT WOULD MAKE IT EASIER
FOR US TO ASSIGN THE COMPLAINT
AND ALSO TO REVIEW THE
COMPLAINT.
WE ALSO HAVE A CHANCE TO SAY
WELL YOU KNOW, THIS YEAR WE
RECEIVED FIFTY COMPLAINT HOW
MANY OF THOSE WERE FILED BY OR
THROUGH OR HOW MANY WERE FILED
THROUGH THE POLICE DEPARTMENT?
WE CAN IDENTIFY THAT EASILY BY
LOOKING AT THE END OF EACH
NUMBER OF POLICE I SEE AS A
CLERK.
SO THAT WOULD MAKE A NUMBER
EASIER FOR US.
I THINK IN THE PAST WAS A BIT
DIFFICULT BECAUSE WE HAVE
ISSUES WITH THE OTHER ONES FOR
THIS YEAR OF TWENTY FOUR WE HAD
RECEIVED TWENTY EIGHT
COMPLAINTS THAT WERE FILED BY
AND WE A FEW OF THOSE ONES
STILL THERE ARE SOME PENDING
ONES THAT CAME THROUGH THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT SO JUST
HAVING THOSE TWO DIFFERENT
AREAS TO LOOK AT IS MAKING THE
THE PROCESS A LITTLE BIT
COMPLICATED.
I TRY TO MAKE A LITTLE BIT
EASIER FOR US TO HAVE ONE
STREAMLINED SO AND I WOULD
ENTERTAIN ANY OF CONCERNS OR
QUESTIONS THAT THE
COMMISSIONERS HAVE BEFORE
PROBABLY MAKE A MOTION TO ADOPT
THIS.
NO, WE NEED TO ACT ON IT NOW
VERSUS EVERY TIME WE HAVE TO
DISCUSS IT.
>> BUT LET ME JUST ASK THE
COMMISSIONER TO TAKE A LOOK AT
THE COMPLAINT FORM THAT'S IN
YOUR PACKAGE FOR AND YOU CAN
SEE UP AT THE TOP THE FIRST
LINE COMPLAINANT AND THEN IT'S
TWO WEEKS IS DASH AND THREE
X'S.
SO IF IT CAME IN IN TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR WILL BE TWENTY FOUR
DASH AND WE WOULD HAVE STARTED
WITH ZERO ZERO ONE AND ZERO
ZERO TWO.
SO BY LOOKING AT THE NUMBERS WE
KNOW HOW MANY COMPLAINTS WE'VE
HAD WHAT WHAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT DOING NOW YOU CAN SEE
THIS IS UP FOR THE NEW
COMMISSIONERS COMPLAINTS FROM
CITIZENS CAN COME IN EITHER
THROUGH IG PARK.
THEY CAN CALL OUR OFFICE.
THEY CAN SEND THEM TO US BY
EMAIL OR WRITTEN COMPLAINT CAN
COME DIRECTLY TO EKPO AND THEN
UNDER THE OLD SYSTEM IT WOULD
BE AN EXACT NUMBER AND THEY CAN
ALSO FILE A COMPLAINT THROUGH
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT AND THEN
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT WOULD
SEND THE COMPLAINT TO US.
THEN IT WILL BE A POLICE
COMPLAINT.
WELL THE PROBLEM WAS THERE WAS
A LIST OF LISTS IMPACTS ZERO
ZERO ONE ZERO ZERO TWO AND
THERE WAS A LIST OF POLICE ZERO
ZERO ONE ZERO ZERO TWO.
SO IT WAS CONFUSION SO SO WHAT
IS BEING SUGGESTED A PROPOSED
IS THAT ALL THE NUMBERS ARE
LISTED NUMERICALLY AS THEY COME
IN AND AT THE END OF THE NUMBER
IT WOULD EITHER SAY IS THAT I
SEE I SEE FOR I SEE FOR IG OR
PC FOR POLICE SO YOU'D BE ABLE
TO TELL LOOKING AT THE
COMPLAINT.
NO.
WHETHER IT CAME THROUGH THE
POLICE OR CAME BACK SO THE
NUMBERS WOULD BE SEQUENTIAL AND
IT WOULD JUST THE SUFFIX THERE
WOULD BE ABLE TO YOU'D BE ABLE
TILL NOW I KNOW THAT THE
DEPARTMENT IS ALSO LOOKING AT A
NEW SYSTEM AND SO WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE TO SEE HOW THAT WORKS.
BUT FOR NOW WE WE'RE WE'RE
LOOKING TO APPROVE THIS NEW
NUMBERING SYSTEM.
>> YOU NEED A MOTION.
YES.
QUESTION.
SURE.
THANKS.
I GUESS I'M NOT UNDERSTANDING
BECAUSE I THOUGHT WE DID THIS
BEFORE IN WHICH THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT PUT THE NUMBERS AND
WE WERE GOING BY WHATEVER
NUMBER SYSTEM THEY HAD AT ONE
POINT AND THEN WE WERE HAVING
THEM CORRELATE TOGETHER THAT
THAT WASN'T I THINK I THINK
INITIALLY INITIALLY PEOPLE WERE
FILING THROUGH THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND THEN WE STARTED
GETTING MORE THROUGH IT.
BUT NOW WE HAVE TWO POLICE
SYSTEMS NUMBERING ONE IS FROM
BLOCK AND ONE FROM THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND WHAT WE WANT IS
WE WANT TO HAVE THEM CROSSTALK
VERSUS BEING SEPARATE SO WE
FIRST HAVE TO GET THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT TO SEE IF THEY'LL BE
OK WITH IT SHOWING IT THIS WAY.
I MEAN HOW CAN WE MAKE A MOTION
IF WE DON'T DISCUSS IT FIRST?
>> BUT I THINK I THINK THERE IS
NO CONFLICT IN TERMS
OF NUMBERING BECAUSE WE ARE
JUST GOING TO GO THROUGH ONE TO
TEN FIFTY WHATEVER NUMBER IS
AND YOU FIND WHICH WHICH NUMBER
IT'S LIKE IT'S LIKE YOU HAVE
FIFTY EMPLOYEES AND THEY ARE
COMING TO WORK AT FIVE TIME
FIVE MINUTES ONE AFTER THE
OTHER IT DOESN'T MATTER YOU
JUST GO AND JUST CLICK THAT YOU
ARE COMING AND YOU ARE COMING
YOU ARE COMING YOU'RE COMING
AND WE KNOW EXACTLY WHO
UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU'RE SAYING.
>> I WOULD SAY LIKE AS FAR AS
BEING THAT THEY ALREADY HAVE
WHATEVER IN PLACE WITH THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT ARE WE TO GET
WITH THEM FIRST TO SEE HOW DO
WE MAKE IT COME TOGETHER VERSUS
AS MAKING A MOTION TODAY TO THE
THE THE THE SUGGESTION OR THE
MOTION IS GOING TO BE FOR THE
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE NUMBERS AND
WE KNOW THAT THE POLICE WHAT
THEY ARE GOING TO BE
IMPLEMENTING NEW SYSTEM SO THIS
IS OUR LIKE SUGGESTION TO THEM
HOW WE CAN RECONCILE BOTH
NUMBERS SO WE ARE NOT GOING TO
HAVE A CONFLICT THAT NO ONE AND
THIS YEAR WAS FIRED BY THE
POLICE.
NO ONE ALSO WAS FIRED BY EQUI
THEY ARE NOT THEY ARE NOT THE
SAME.
RIGHT.
SO WE NEED TO HAVE THEM IN
SEQUENTIAL WAY.
YEAH, I WILL JUST SAY I KNOW
WE'VE WORKED ON THE NUMBERING
SYSTEM A COUPLE OF DIFFERENT
TIMES TO TRY TO GET IT TO TO
WORK THE BEST IT CAN.
I THINK WHERE WE'RE AT RIGHT
NOW IS OUR NEW SYSTEM IS GOING
TO BE OUR IN-HOUSE TRAININGS
OCCURRING NEXT WEEK.
SO AT THAT POINT WE'RE GOING TO
WORK WITH THE COMMISSION TO
FIGURE OUT THE BEST WAY TO HAVE
THE NUMBERING SYSTEM WORK IN A
SYSTEM THAT MAKES SENSE.
>> OK, SO IN THIS CASE I'LL
PROBABLY TABLE THIS MOTION.
>> WELL WE CAN SEND IT AS A
SUGGESTION.
WELL, YOU KNOW THAT THIS IS THE
WAY WE THINK IT OUGHT TO GO AND
THEY CAN GO WITH IT AS THEY
WISH AND BE MORE THAN HAPPY TO
PARTICIPATE IN THE DISCUSSION
ABOUT THE NUMBER.
>> YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
WE'RE DEFINITELY OPEN TO
DISCUSSIONS ON THAT AND IF YOU
DO YOU HAVE ANY SUGGESTIONS
YOU'D LIKE TO SEND FOR US FOR
OUR CONSIDERATION FOR TO TO
REVIEW?
WE DEFINITELY APPRECIATE THAT.
SO I THINK A MOTION IS IN ORDER
.
COMMISSIONER COOPER, DID YOU
HAVE A COMMENT?
GOOD EVENING, EVERYONE.
PITY IT WASN'T REALLY A
REGARDING A FORM IS MORE
PROCEDURAL QUESTION THAT I CAN
JUST ASK COMMISSIONER OTHMAN
THAT OK, THANK YOU SO SO WOULD
BE ON THE TABLE TWO MOTIONS.
ONE IS FOR THE NUMBERS.
SECOND FOR THE UPDATE REPORT
AND ALSO I WILL DISCUSS THE
REPORT AFTER YOU MAKE THE
MOTION ON THIS ONE.
LOOK OUT SO WE CAN DISCUSS THE
REPORT.
INFORMATION MANAGER NOBODY HAS
MADE A MOTION YET BUT FIRST ONE
RIGHT GOING TO BE THE FIRST ONE
IS FOR NO.
THE SECOND ONE IS THE CORRECT
AND THESE ARE BOTH SUGGESTIONS
TO BE REPLACED.
NO, I THINK THE REPORT THE
REPORT IS FOR US.
RIGHT.
BUT THE NO NO FOR THE FOR YES
YES YES.
>> WE CAN HAVE A MOTION WITH
REGARD TO THE PROPOSED
NUMBERING SYSTEM FOR COMPLAINTS
.
>> I MAKE A MOTION OK SO IT'S
BEEN MOVED THAT THE SYSTEM
OF NUMBERING PROPOSED BY THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS WHERE THE
NUMBERS WOULD BE SEQUENTIAL
WHETHER IT WAS AN IMPACT
COMPLAINT OR DEPARTMENT
COMPLAINT BE SUBMITTED TO THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT FOR
CONSIDERATION AND APPROVAL.
YOUR SECOND OUR SECOND ANY
FURTHER DISCUSSION?
I JUST HAVE A QUESTION TO SO
THE EXAMPLE THAT'S ON THIS
DOCUMENT THAT'S IN FRONT OF US
HAS FIVE HAS FIVE DIGITS BUT
ONE OF THE DETERMINANT FACTORS
IS THE LETTERS IP I SEE OR PD
THAT WOULD BE A SUFFIX ON SO
THAT'S A SUFFIX.
SO CAN WE BE CLEAR THAT THAT'S
WHAT THE MOTION IS?
>> YES, THE MOTION IS GOING TO
BE THE NUMBER JUST TO EXPLAIN
IT AGAIN IS GOING TO BE
STARTING WITH C C WHICH IS A
CITIZEN COMPLAINT THE TWO
DIGITS OF THE YEAR THAT HAS TO
THE YEAR DESH THE NUMBER ZERO
ZERO WHATEVER ZERO ZERO ALL THE
WAY DOWN AND THEN DASH I C OR
PC OK TO IDENTIFY WHETHER IT
CAME THROUGH OR THE DEPARTMENT
.
SO WE HAVE A MOTION AND A
SECOND IS THERE ANY OTHER
DISCUSSION
ON THIS ISSUE ALL IN
FAVOR.
>> I OR ANY OPPOSED THE MOTION
PASSES NOW THE SECOND ISSUE
FROM THE INFORMATION MANAGERS
HAS TO DO WITH THE FORM THAT WE
WERE LOOKING AT.
IT'S A LITTLE DIFFERENT.
YEAH, AGAIN TO MAKE THINGS
EASIER FOR US TO WHEN WE REVIEW
THE COMPLAINT IS WE WERE
DEALING WITH A DRAFT THAT WAS
SUGGESTED PROBABLY OVER THREE
OR SO YEARS AGO.
>> NOW WE HAVE THINGS
STREAMLINED.
WE HAVE BETTER UNDERSTANDING
OF THE PROCESS ITSELF AND WHAT
I SUGGESTED OVER HERE IS
BASICALLY TO HAVE THE REPORT
REFLECTS HOW WE RECEIVE THE
INFORMATION FROM THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT SO WE DON'T HAVE TO
GO AND LOOK OR WHAT WAS A
COMPLAINT WHERE WAS PLACED AND
THE INFORMATION THAT WE
RECEIVED FROM THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO GO THROUGH
ALL OF THAT.
EVERYTHING IS BASICALLY A
REFLECTION TO HOW THINGS ARE
ORGANIZED BY THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT SO IT'S EASY TO GO
AND COPY PASTE THE ALLEGATIONS
OR THE FINDINGS THE CONCLUSIONS
,DISCIPLINE ETC. AND OR REVIEW
OUR DECISION.
OURIKA MENDACIOUS THAT IS
PROBABLY GOING TO BE MORE
OF SLIMLINE ESPECIALLY FOR THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS WHO HAD TO
DEAL WITH THE CURRENT TEMPLATE
THAT WE ARE USING.
IT'S A LITTLE BIT I FIND IT A
LITTLE BIT CUMBERSOME AND I
HAVE BEEN WITH IT FOR A NUMBER
OF YEARS BUT BUT THIS ONE IS
BASICALLY A MIRROR IMAGE
OF WHAT WE SEE OF THE MATERIAL
PROVIDED TO US BY THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
>> AND DON'T FORGET THE ON THE
BACK TO THE LAST WAS ON THE
BACK FOR RECOMMENDATIONS.
>> SOMETIMES WE HAVE
RECOMMENDATIONS AND SOMETIMES
YEAH AND JUST FOR THE SAKE
OF ABBREVIATIONS, THIS IS WHY
YOU FIND TOO MANY OF THESE
SUBHEADINGS ON THE SAME PAGE
BUT SOMETIMES YOU MIGHT HAVE
ONE PAGE FOR THE ALLEGATIONS OR
OR THE FINDINGS ETC. SO THE
REPORT MIGHT BE MORE THAN JUST
ONE PAGE BUT FOR INFORMATION
PERTAINING TO OUR REPORT
WRITING IS OVER HERE.
AS I SAID, IT'S REFLECTION TO
WHAT YOU SEE OR WHAT WE SEE
FROM THE POLICE DEPARTMENT AND
AGAIN FOR OUR NEW COMMISSIONERS
THE OUR ORDINANCE SAYS WE CAN
HAVE UP TO FIVE INFORMATION
MANAGERS WHO ARE DESIGNATED TO
REVIEW THE COMPLAINTS AND HAVE
ACCESS TO THE DOCUMENTATION
COMING FROM THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
SO AT THIS TIME WE HAVE FIVE
AND IF SOMEONE IS INTERESTED IN
BECOMING AN INFORMATION
MANAGER, LET ME KNOW AND WE
WILL BE ABLE TO MEET AT THE
NEXT TIME THERE IS AN OPENING
FOR THAT.
OK, I WOULD LIKE TO ALSO MAKE A
MOTION WE NEED WE NEED A MOTION
FOR APPROVAL OF THE NEW
COMMISSIONER.
I'M SORRY.
CAN I ASK ONE QUESTION TO ASK
WHAT YOU JUST SAID WITH THE
INFORMATION MANAGER SO AS THE
COMMISSION AS A WHOLE DO WE
LIKE A SUMMARY OF LIKE THE
FINDINGS OR IT'S ONLY STAYS
WITH THE INFORMATION MANAGER
THE ANSWER IS AS OF NOW THERE'S
NO SUMMARY THAT COMES D THE THE
FORM IS SENT OUT TO THE
COMPLAINANT.
>> SO I MEAN IT CERTAINLY IS
AVAILABLE WHEN WHEN THIS IS
FILLED OUT AS A RESULT OF A
COMPLAINT SO THAT ANY OF THAT
INFORMATION IS AVAILABLE IF ANY
OF THE COMMISSIONERS WISH TO
WISH TO REVIEW THOSE OK I WAS
JUST I WAS ASKING JUST THIS
LIKE IF WE'RE OUT IN THE
COMMUNITY IF SOMEONE STOPS US.
>> SURE.
HEY, THERE WAS SOME COMPLAINTS
I WOULDN'T KNOW ANYTHING
OBVIOUSLY YOU KNOW, WE WOULDN'T
DISCUSS CERTAIN THINGS BUT JUST
TO HAVE UNDERSTANDING OF THINGS
COMING IN AND OR SUMMARIZE
THAT'S WHY THE REPORT THIS CAN
BE PUBLIC BECAUSE THERE IS
NOTHING OVER THERE AND THE
REPORT IS SENT TO THE
INDIVIDUAL AND IF SOMEONE IF
THE COMPLAINANT WANTED TO KNOW
MORE OR WANTS TO DISCUSS THE
REPORT OR WHATEVER, THEY ARE
FREE TO DO THAT.
IF YOU HEAR SOMEONE IN THE
COMMUNITY SAY WELL, YOU KNOW, I
HAD A COMPLAINT YOU ALWAYS SAY
IS IF THEY CAN GIVE YOU THE
INFORMATION AND WE CAN LOOK
INTO IT AND SEE WHERE THINGS
STAND OR MISS CUMMINGS, SHE HAS
ALL THE INFORMATION SHE HAS ALL
THE COMPLAINTS ARE THERE
OUTLAYING FERGUSON IS NOT OK SO
THERE'S A MOTION IS WAS THERE A
SECOND NOISE YOU MADE THE
MOTION I'LL MAKE A MOTION TO
ACCEPT THE UPDATED FORM OF THE
REPORT.
>> IS THERE A SECOND THAT OK,
COMMISSIONER MANLEY SECOND ANY
FURTHER DISCUSSION?
>> YES.
YES.
SO FROM THE REPORT WE HEARD
EARLIER ABOUT THE COMPLAINT THE
PREVIOUS OFFICER GOING TO THE
HOME AND ANOTHER ONE COMING AND
ALL THAT ALL THAT.
SO IF THIS WAS IN PLACE THEN
ALL OF THAT INFORMATION WOULD
COME BACK TO US RIGHT?
MAYBE NOT THE PERSON'S NAME
OBVIOUSLY.
BUT IF THIS WAS IN PLACE THEN
I'M ASKING IF WE WOULD GET IT
BACK AND IF WE GET BACK AND
IT'S SHARED WITH ALL OF THE
COMMISSIONERS THEN ANSWERING
YOUR QUESTION YOU WOULD HAVE
SOME OF THE INFORMATION.
SO IF SOMEONE SAYS TO ME
I
HEARD THAT THERE WAS A
COMPLAINT ABOUT SUCH AND SUCH
ON THIS DAY AND I WONDER WHAT
HAPPENED WITH IT NOW FIRST
OF ALL, THIS IS A REVISION
OF THE DOCUMENT THAT WE'VE BEEN
USING.
SO THERE ARE SOME CHANGES TO
THIS.
BUT THERE IS THERE HAS BEEN A
DOCUMENT VERY SIMILAR TO THIS
AS IT'S BEEN SHARED WITH ALL
YOU KNOW, EACH TIME IT'S I
GUESS WHAT I'M SAYING IS YEAH,
IT JUST SEEMS LIKE OUR HANDS
ARE TIED THAT WE DON'T GET THE
INFORMATION WE CAN SHARE THE
INFORMATION.
IT'S WHAT WE DO.
I YOU KNOW DOES ANYONE ELSE
WANT TO SPEAK WITH REGARD TO
THIS COMMITTEE?
>> WE HAVE NOT SHARED THE
REPORT OF THE INFORMATION
MANAGERS WITH THE FULL
COMMISSION SO THE QUESTION IS
IS THERE SOME WAY THAT THE BODY
OF THE COMMISSION CAN GET THE
FINAL REPORT?
I DON'T SEE A PROBLEM WITH
THAT.
THIS IS WHAT'S GIVEN TO THE
COMPLAINT AND SO THE
COMMISSIONERS HERE WOULD HAVE
THE SAME ACCESS TO THIS.
WE JUST HAVE NOT BEEN
FORWARDING IT.
SO IF THAT IF I WOULD GUESS I
WOULD YOU KNOW, ABOUT TO
MUHAMMAD AND SAY IS THERE A
PROCESS OR WAIT FOR US TO TAKE
THE FINAL REPORT AND MAKE THE
FINAL REPORTS A PART OF THE
REPORTING PROCESS MONTHLY OR
SOMETHING TO THE FULL
COMMISSION?
YOU KNOW?
WELL, I'M NOT FOR SURE THAT'S
WHAT WHAT I WOULD OFFER.
I THINK THAT'S WHAT I'M
HEARING.
YES.
I'M TRYING TO SUMMARIZE VERSION
SOME KIND OF SUMMARY EVEN IF
IT'S PARED DOWN SO THAT THE
FULL BODY COULD SAY OK, THESE
TEN THINGS CAME IN THIS MORNING
.
I THINK THAT HELPS KEEPS US
INFORMED.
SHOULD WE BE STOPPED IN THE
COMMUNITY OR YOU KNOW OR WHAT
HAVE YOU?
>> I GUESS THAT'S WHAT I WOULD
AND I SPEAK READ BY THOSE YOU
KNOW, I DON'T SEE ANY ISSUE
OF SHARING THE REPORT'S
FINDINGS WITH WITH THE
COMMISSIONERS.
>> WE MIGHT NOT HAVE PERSONAL
INFORMATION OR WHAT WE HAVE IS
PROBABLY THE NUMBER OR WE'RE IN
THE PROCESS.
THE THE THE REVIEW IS MOST
OF THE TIME IT'S IN PROGRESS
AND WE CAN HAVE THAT ALSO AS
PART OF OUR FILE AN EXCEL FILE
THAT SHOWS THE COMPLAINTS AS
THEY COME AND WHERE THEY ARE
THE PIPELINE OF REVIEW.
BUT BUT DEFINITELY IF THERE ARE
SOME IF WE HAVE SOMEBODY WHO
FILES THROUGH AIRPARK MEANING
THAT WE KNOW WHO THIS PERSON IS
BECAUSE BECAUSE THEY HAVE THEY
GIVE THEIR NAMES ETC. SO IT'S
NOT IT'S NOT RIGHT A NAME THAT
IS LIKE A IF THAT PERSON IS
KNOWN AND WHAT I WHAT I WE
MIGHT SUGGEST THAT MAYBE
THERE'S A PROCESS BY QUARTERLY
WE CAN REPORT THE INFORMATION
MANAGERS CAN COMPLETE A REPORT
THAT SAYS WE'VE SEEN AT THIS
POINT BECAUSE IT TAKES A WHILE
TO REVIEW THESE COMPLAINTS.
RIGHT.
WE'VE REVIEWED THIS MANY
COMPLAINTS WITH THIS KIND
OF OUTCOME NOT THE INFORMATION
OF WHO BUT MAYBE A SUMMARY
OF WHAT KIND OF COMPLAINT IT
WAS AND IF
THE INFORMATION
MANAGERS FEEL THAT WE WERE IN
LINE WITH WHAT THE DEPARTMENT
SAID OR IF WE MADE A DIFFERENT
SUGGESTION TO THE DEPARTMENT TO
SAY WE DON'T AGREE WITH THIS
MAYBE THAT KIND OF SUMMARY ON A
QUARTERLY BASIS MIGHT BE
SOMETHING THAT CAN BE DONE.
YEAH, I THINK THAT'S FINE.
IT CAN BE DONE.
WHAT WE CAN SAY IS WE REVIEWED
X NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS THE ONES
THAT WE AGREED WITH THE
DEPARTMENT X NUMBER.
WE CAN ALSO SAY THAT THE
COMPLAINTS WE RECEIVED WHERE
TYPE YOU KNOW, TYPE ONE IS
BASICALLY IF YOU FEEL THAT YOU
ARE NOT RESPECTED YOU ARE NOT
TREATED WELL BY THE POLICE WHEN
YOU HAVE ENCOUNTERED THE POLICE
.
NUMBER TWO IS ARREST NUMBER
THREE IS THIS NUMBER FOUR IS
REPORTING AND WE THINK WE CAN
SEE AND WE CAN SAY YOU OF THE
SUSTAINED ONES X NUMBER
OF COMPLAINTS ARE SUSTAINED AND
WE AGREE WITH THAT AND ALSO WE
HAVE RECOMMENDATIONS.
THERE ARE TIMES WHEN WE SAY
THAT WE DON'T BASICALLY
DISAGREE WITH THE FINDINGS BUT
WE SAY INCONCLUSIVE BECAUSE WE
DID NOT HAVE ENOUGH INFORMATION
TO AH JUDGE THE COMPLAINT AND
WE CAN ALSO CONVEY THAT TO THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
SEE, YOU HAVE ENCOUNTERED AND
THERE WAS THE POLICE OFFICER
DID NOT THERE ON HIS OR HER
BODY WORN CAMERA THERE IS NO
WAY TO VERIFY I CAN'T I CAN
JUST TAKE THE WORDS OF THE
COMPLAINT OR THE THE WORDS
OF THE POLICE.
I WOULD SAY IT'S INCONCLUSIVE
UNLESS WE HAVE ALL THE
INFORMATION SO AND THAT WOULD
BE A RECOMMENDATION TO THE
DEPARTMENT.
I THINK WE CAN SUMMARIZE AS
COMMISSIONER PHILIPPS HAD
SUGGESTED QUARTERLY OR SO WE
CAN BRING IN HOW MANY CASES WE
WE REVIEWED COMPLETED OUR
FINDINGS AND WHERE THIS THEN I
AGREE THAT'S A VERY KIND
OF THING.
RECOMMENDATIONS OR
RECOMMENDATION.
YES, WE CAN DO THAT.
>> SO IT'S IT SOUNDS TO ME AS
THE COMMISSIONERS ARE
REQUESTING THAT INFORMATION
ABOUT COMPLAINTS BE CONVEYED TO
THE ENTIRE COMMISSION.
AM I READING THAT RIGHT?
YES.
SO IT SOUNDS TO ME LIKE THEY'RE
ASKING FOR A IT QUARTERLY IS OK
WITH EVERYBODY ELSE.
I THINK PERHAPS MISS COMMENTS
CAN HELP US BY PULLING OUT YOU
KNOW, FROM BECAUSE WE FILED
THIS WE GO TO THE TO THE CHAIR
OF THE COMMITTEE AND HE PASSES
TO MISS COMMENTS SINCE IT SENDS
THE REPORT TO THE COMPLAINANT.
SO PERHAPS A QUARTERLY REPORT
WITH DO YOU WANT IS THE IS THE
NO.
YEAH I GUESS WITH THE WITH THE
NUMBER ON IT SO THAT IF YOU
WANTED TO FOLLOW UP AND SEE
THIS IS SAM JONES IS
COMPLAINING THAT WE COULD
PROBABLY IF A CITIZEN WANTED TO
KNOW THAT INFORMATION GET THAT
INFORMATION AND THE COMPLAINT
ALLEGATIONS WOULD BE PRETTY
MUCH IT'S ONLY GENERALLY A FEW
SENTENCES AS TO WHAT IS BEING
ALLEGED IN THE COMPLAINT AND
WHAT OUR DETERMINATION WAS AND
OF THAT TYPE OF REPORT FROM THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS ONCE ONCE
A QUARTER PERHAPS.
BUT BEFORE WE GET TO THAT,
THERE'S A MOTION ON THE ON THE
FLOOR AND THAT MOTION WAS TO
APPROVE THIS FOR WHICH IS A
CHANGE IN THE FORM THAT WE'VE
BEEN USING BUT A MINOR CHANGE
WE HAD A FORM SIMILAR TO THIS.
OK, ANY OTHER DISCUSSION ON
THAT MOTION?
OH QUESTION.
SHOULD WE APPROVE OR MOTION IF
THEY MAY HAVE COME BACK AND
MOTION IT AGAIN BECAUSE IT'S
ANOTHER CHANGE BUT THE CURRENT
WOULD HOUSE THEM BE NUMBERED
AND HOW THIS IS GOING TO LOOK
UP TOP RIGHT.
WE ALREADY OBJECT TO THE
NUMBERING SYSTEM SO THAT WILL
BE CHANGED OVER ON THE FLOOR.
OK, YOU'RE RIGHT.
OK, SO WE'RE APPROVING THIS
WITH THE ADDITION OF THE NEW
NUMBERING SYSTEM RIGHT?
YES.
EVERYBODY CLEAR ON THERE?
YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY FURTHER THANK YOU.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION ALL IN
FAVOR ANY OF OPPOSED AH THE
FORM IS APPROVED NOW IS THERE A
MOTION WITH REGARD TO A REQUEST
FOR A QUARTERLY REPORT FROM THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS OR DO YOU
WANT TO SIT ON THAT FOR A MONTH
OR SO IF I SECOND YOU I'M JUST
WONDERING IF THERE'S ANYTHING
MORE OUT.
I THINK WE SHOULD YOU KNOW I
LIKE TO PUT THINGS IN ORDER IN
SO I THINK
QUARTERLY REPORT IS
THAT WHAT THE MOTION IS WE
REPORT ON THE COME?
WELL, WE'RE TALKING ABOUT TI
WHEN WE FILL THIS OUT IT'S
COMPLETED.
SO I'M ASSUMING YOU ALL WANT A
REPORT ON THE COMPLETE
COMPLAINT REVIEWS FOR THE FOUR.
YES.
SO IT'S BEEN MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER HEYNS THAT THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS PROVIDE TO
THE COMMISSION ON A QUARTERLY
BASIS A REPORT OF THOSE
COMPLAINTS THAT HAVE BEEN
REVIEWED AND COMPLETED WITHIN
THAT QUARTER.
IS THERE A SECOND SECTION ANY
FURTHER DISCUSSION?
>> YEAH.
REPORT TO FORMOST JUST SUMMARY
YOU KNOW THE WORD REPORT I
DON'T BECAUSE WE'RE NOT WE'RE
JUST SOME BASIC INFORMATION,
RIGHT.
A WHATEVER YOU WANT TO CALL IT
A REPORT THAT'S OK.
BUT IT'S IMPORTANT ACCORDING TO
I THINK PROBABLY MIGHT BE
EASIER TO HAVE IT AS PART
OF THE INFORMATION MANAGERS
REPORTING PART OF OUR
SUBCOMMITTEE AND MAKING THE
ACCOUNT THAT IT'S DONE ON A
REGULAR BASIS LIKE QUARTERLY.
SO IT'S
OR IF THIS IS THIS GOES
TO THE COMPLAINT AND YES.
IS THERE ANY REASON WHY WE
CAN'T GET A COPY OF THIS FIELD
OUT YOU MEAN.
YEAH, COMPLETED EVEN ON
SHAREPOINT ALREADY.
>> SO I'M NOT I'M SURE YEAH.
>> LET'S GET SOME CLARIFICATION
WHAT IS DONE WITH THE REPORT SO
THE INFORMATION MANAGERS ARE
THE ONLY ONE WHO HAS ACCESS TO
THE COMPLAINT IN SHAREPOINT IF
YOU ARE NOT AN INFORMATION
MANAGER YOU DO NOT HAVE ACCESS
TO THAT IF YOU LIKE A SUMMARY
REPORT OF THOSE COMPLAINTS, THE
NUMBER THE FINDINGS AND OUTCOME
THAT'S ALREADY IN SHAREPOINT
THE INFORMATION MANAGERS WOULD
JUST HAVE TO GO IN THERE AND
LIKE IT COULD EASILY JUST BE AN
EXCEL SHEET THAT GETS ADDED TO
THE AGENDA.
SO YOU ALL HAVE A COPY OF IT.
IT'S NOT LIKE A YOU KNOW,
SIMPLE SO IF YOU ALL WANT A
SUMMARY IT'S ALREADY THERE IN
SHAREPOINT INFORMATION MANAGERS
JUST HAVE TO GO AND DOWNLOAD IT
AND MAKE IT LOOK PRETTY WHERE I
CAN MAKE IT LOOK PRETTY BUT YOU
ONLY EVER KNOW YOU WON'T YOU
WANT ME TO SO MAYBE WE CAN MIS
COMMENTS DO YOU THINK THAT
FINALLY EXPIRE NEXT MEETING YOU
CAN SHOW US WHAT MIGHT BE
AVAILABLE FROM SHAREPOINT.
ALL THE COMMISSIONERS CAN LOOK
AT IT AND SEE IF THAT'S WHAT
YOU WANT WITH A SUMMARY THERE.
YEAH, JUST SORT OF A PRINTOUT
OR WHATEVER THAT COMMISSION IS
GOING TO LOOK AT AND SEE IF
THAT'S WHAT YOU WANT TO POST I
THINK.
YEAH, MR. GREEN, I GUESS JUST
FOR CLARIFICATION, IS THERE ANY
REASON WHY THE COMMISSION JUST
CAN'T GET A COPY OF THIS
REPORT, REVIEW IT AND RETURN IT
BACK AND AFTER WE REVIEW IT, IF
THERE'S SOME PRIVACY CONCERNS,
I GET IT.
BUT I THINK THAT WOULD SATISFY
DENHA WILL TAKE AWAY FROM THE
COMMISSION THE COMMITTEE I'M
SORRY I SAY THAT IF IF YOU GUYS
GET ACCESS TO THAT AND GIVE
RECOMMENDATION AND THAT WE
ESSENTIALLY TAKE AWAY FROM THE
COMMITTEE.
RIGHT.
THAT WILL DO US NO NOT REALLY.
>> I MEAN IF WE SAY WE DO MAYBE
15 DAYS DURING THE QUARTER AND
THE END OF THE QUARTER WE SHARE
A COPY WITH THE COMMISSION.
OK, EVERYBODY IS UP TO DATE AND
WHAT WE'VE WHO DID IT IT'S
BETTER NOW WE KNOW WHEN YOU SAY
SHARE YOU'RE SAYING PASS OUT
THE FORMS TO THE COMMISSIONERS
IF THAT'S WHAT THEY WANT TO SEE
.
>> YES.
SO FROM MY UNDERSTANDING WHEN
IT WAS CREATED IT WAS INFORMED
THAT THE INFORMATION MANAGERS
WOULD ONLY BE THE ONES THE FIVE
OF THEM TO HAVE ACCESS TO THAT
OUTFIT.
YEAH, IF YOU WANT TO CHANGE IT,
YOU GUYS HAVE TO CHANGE THE
WHEEL.
>> THE ORDINANCE, THE OR IS
REALLY WHAT SPECIFIED THE
ORDER.
NO, THE INFORMATION MANAGERS
ARE THE ONLY ONES WHO CAN
REVIEW THE REPORTS FROM THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT RIGHT NOW
WHETHER YOU'RE QUESTION IS
WHETHER THESE DOCUMENTS CAN BE
SHARED WITH THE INFORMATION
MANAGERS I MEAN WITH THE ENTIRE
COMMISSION.
THAT'S WHAT THAT'S WHAT I'M
ASKING AND I THINK THAT'S WHAT
MY FELLOW COMMISSIONERS ASKING
AS WELL.
WHY CAN'T THIS REPORT JUST BE
SHARED WITH THE COMMISSION
SHOULD BE ABLE TO BECAUSE IT'S
NOT DESIGNATED FOR HER.
IT DOESN'T
A PART OF NO IS NOT
THAT'S TRUE.
IT'S NOT BASED ON ANYBODY'S
PERSONAL INFORMATION ON THESE
FORM.
SO THE ONLY PEOPLE WHO KNOW
WHAT IT'S GONE TO OR WHO IS
GOING TO ARE THE ACTUAL
COMMITTEE RIGHT AT THAT IT CAN
I SUGGEST THAT WE TABLE THIS
AND FOR NEXT WEEK FOR NEXT
MEETING WE'LL WORK WITH MISS
CUMINS AND SEE IF WE CAN LOOK
AT THE LAW TO SEE IF WE CAN
FIGURE OUT WHAT WE CAN AND
CANNOT DO BOTH.
AND ALSO DIDN'T YOU DIDN'T YOU
JUST YOU JUST ASKED MISS
CUMMINGS TO I DON'T KNOW TO
PROVIDE IT FOR THE NEXT MEETING
OR PROVIDE AT ANY TIME BETWEEN
NOW AND THE NEXT MEETING SHOW
US WHAT THAT SUMMARY THAT YOU
THAT YOU SPOKE SO GLOWINGLY
ABOUT AND HOW EASY AND HOW EASY
IT WAS FOR YOU TO PROVIDE IT
AND WE COULD TAKE A LOOK MAYBE
THAT WILL SUFFICE AND IF IT
DOESN'T, WE CAN GO FROM THERE
TO YES PROFESSORE SUMMARY AND
CAN I HAVE A MOTION TO TABLE
THE PRESENT MOTION IS TO HAVE
THE INFORMATION MANAGER'S
REPORT QUARTERLY ON THE
COMPLAINT REVIEWS THAT HAVE
BEEN COMPLETED.
I'M ASKING FOR A MOTION TO
TABLE THIS UNTIL THE NEXT
MEETING MOTION I SO MOVE.
YEAH I WANT TO COMMENT THIS IS
NOT YES BUT I WAS JUST THINKING
ABOUT THIS WHOLE DISCUSSION WE
GET INTO THE MIND.
>> YES.
OH SORRY I WAS THINKING ABOUT
THIS WHOLE COMMENT DISCUSSION
AND WHEN WE GET THIS
INFORMATION IT WOULD BE HELPFUL
FOR THE TRAINING COMMITTEE
BECAUSE WE COULD CHARACTERIZE
WHAT THE ISSUES SEEM TO BE AND
THEREFORE WE COULD COME UP WITH
TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES AND
TRAINING SUGGESTIONS.
SO I THINK I THINK THIS WOULD
BE A GOOD THING SINCE IT SOUNDS
VERY GOOD.
AS I SAY, WE SUMMIT SOMETIMES
WE DO INCLUDE RECOMMENDATIONS
AND THOSE COULD BE INCLUDED AS
WELL.
SO YOU CAN TAKE A LOOK.
ALL RIGHT, GOOD.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO TABLE IF I
FORGOT MY ROBERT'S RULES, I
DON'T KNOW IF THAT REQUIRES A
VOTE BUT I MIGHT ASK FOR ONE
ANYWAY.
ALL IN FAVOR OF TABLING THIS
THE MOTION FOR THE INFORMATION
MANAGERS TO PRESENT A QUARTERLY
REPORT.
>> THIS IS THE MOTION TO TABLE
ALL IN FAVOR ANY OPPOSE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO AT THE NEXT MEETING WE'LL
BRING THAT BACK UP AND WE'LL
ALSO HAVE A COPY OF WHATEVER IT
IS THAT JUST COMMENTS CAN
EASILY FRENEAU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
NEXT IS OUR OUR COUNCIL UPDATE
.
WE WANT TO WELCOME COUNCIL
PERSON.
I THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR BEING
WITH US AND BEING A PART OF US
.
DO YOU HAVE ANY COMMENTS UPDATE
ANYTHING YOU'D LIKE TO REPORT
ON TODAY
?
THANK YOU AND THANK YOU FOR THE
WARM WELCOME.
I'M REALLY HAPPY TO BE PART
OF THIS BODY.
I WILL DEFER TO COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON WHO'S MAY HAVE AN
UPDATE HERSELF.
I THINK THE ONLY THING I WOULD
MENTION IS I HAD A NICE
DISCUSSION WITH CHIEF ANDERSON
AT MY LAST WORD FOR UPDATE
MONTHLY MEETING ABOUT DATA AND
STATISTICS REGARDING THE
DRIVING EQUALITY ORDINANCE AND
WHAT THEY ARE TRACKING AND I
FEEL REALLY GOOD THAT THEY'RE
WORKING TO LOOK AT THE DATA,
TAKE ACTIONABLE STEPS WITH THE
DATA AND I THINK COUNCIL IS
GOING TO BE GETTING A REPORT IN
OK, I DON'T WANT TO I DON'T
WANT TO GIVE A DATE.
MY UNDERSTANDING IS IT'S GOING
TO BE FORTHCOMING IN THE NEXT
COUPLE OF MONTHS AND AND SO
REALLY LOOKING FORWARD TO
SEEING THAT AND SEEING THE
RESULTS OF THAT POLICY SO FAR.
THANK YOU.
WE ARE AS WELL ANXIOUS TO SEE
ANY RESULTS THAT WE CAN THAT WE
CAN GLEAN FROM THE NEW
ORDINANCE.
>> MR. HARRISON HAD NOTHING
MUCH TO THANK YOU, CHAIR
CARTER.
>> NOTHING MUCH TO ADD TO THAT.
MY CALL FOR A REPORT IS IN JULY
BECAUSE THAT'LL BE THE TWO YEAR
ANNIVERSARY OF US PASSING IT SO
I BELIEVE WE WILL HAVE
SOMETHING BY THEN AND WE'RE
JUST I'M TO START THE DRIVE
EQUALITY ORDINANCE TOUR, YOU
KNOW, KIND OF WE'RE IN THE
IMPLEMENTATION PHASE AS I'VE
SAID BEFORE.
BUT WE'RE GETTING INVITED TO
I'VE BEEN GETTING INVITED TO
DIFFERENT GROUPS AND BODIES TO
TALK ABOUT THE PROGRESS SO FAR
AND YOU KNOW WHAT WE'RE SEEING.
SO WE'RE WAITING ON ADDITIONAL
DATA FROM CHIEF ANDERSON.
>> WELL, WE SHOULD HAVE THE
CARDS I WOULD IMAGINE WHEN YOU
GO OUT YOU'D WANT TO HAND THOSE
OUT.
YEAH, THOSE AVAILABLE.
SO I KNOW THIS WILL MOVE RIGHT
AHEAD WITH GETTING THOSE
ORDERED.
>> I HAD TO THAT I HANDED OUT
MY LAST TWO AT THE ANN ARBOR
DEMS MEETING A COUPLE OF WEEKS
AGO WHEN I SPOKE THERE ABOUT
IT.
SO THEIR PEOPLE DO WANT THEM.
YEAH, WE WE DO NEED THEM.
A LOT OF PEOPLE THERE HADN'T
EVEN WEREN'T EVEN AWARE THAT IT
EXISTED SO GOOD.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
I'M JUST A COUPLE OF LITTLE
THINGS THOSE OF YOU WHO WHO
CHECKED YOUR CITY EMAIL I HAD
SENT OUT AN EMAIL ASKING ABOUT
NUMBER ONE WHETHER YOU THOUGHT
THAT THE COMMISSIONERS NAMES
SHOULD BE ON THE ANNUAL REPORT.
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
AND THEN WE'VE WE'VE HAD
COMMISSIONERS WHO WERE ON
DURING TWENTY TWENTY FOUR AND
AT THE TIME OF THE PRINTING
OF THE REPORT ARE NO LONGER
COMMISSIONERS.
SO WHAT DO WE DO ABOUT THAT?
WHAT DO YOU THINK I SAID NO I I
WAS JUST SAYING ON THE REPORT
IT'S A COMMISSION BODY AS A
WHOLE I THINK WE NEED THREE ON
THERE THAT WAS MY THOUGHT BUT
YOU KNOW IF I GOT THE QUESTION
AS TO WHETHER WE SHOULD DO THAT
ANYBODY DOES ANYBODY REALLY
WANT THE NAMES OF THE
COMMISSIONERS IN THE ANNUAL
REPORT?
I THINK WELL SINCE I WAS NOT ON
ON TWENTY FOUR OK AND PUTTING
MY NAME ON THAT REPORT MEANS
THAT I AGREE WITH EVERYTHING
THAT WAS THERE SO I DON'T EVEN
KNOW ALL THE STUFF THAT WAS
THERE.
SO MY SUGGESTION IS THAT YOU
PUT THE NAMES OF THE
COMMISSIONERS WHO WERE ON THE
COMMITTEE AT THAT TIME.
ANY OTHER ANY OTHER THOUGHTS?
>> I AGREE WITH THAT.
WHAT DOES THAT MATTER LIKE WHY
DO WE NEED OUR NAME ON THE
REPORT IF IT CONCLUDES IT AS A
PAC AS A WHOLE LIKE WHY DO WE
HAVE WHAT WAS THE IMPORTANCE
OF PUTTING OUT NAMES ON HERE?
>> BELIEVE ME I DON'T WANT MY
NAME ON A WHOLE BUNCH OF STUFF.
I'M TIRED OF IT BUT THE BENEFIT
OF IT IS FOR PEOPLE IN THE
COMMUNITY TO KNOW WHO THE
COMMISSIONERS WRITE WHAT IS IN
ATHLETICS.
>> YOU KNOW WHAT TO DO WITH THE
SOCIAL MEDIA IN THE OUTREACH
THE LIKE.
>> YEAH BUT THAT REACHES MAYBE
DIFFERENT VOTING BASE MIGHT BE
DIFFERENT AUDIENCES THE SOCIAL
MEDIA AUDIENCE IS A CERTAIN
AUDIENCE AND THE REPORT MIGHT
BE TO A DIFFERENT AUDIENCE JUST
FOR THE FOR KNOWLEDGE OF WHO
SITS ON THE COMMISSION.
DOES THE COMMISSION REPRESENT A
COMMUNITY FOR OTHER PEOPLE WHO
MIGHT BE INTERESTED AND SAY HEY
MISS PIPKINS I KNOW HER, SHE'S
ON THE COMMITTEE.
LET ME ASK MORE ABOUT IT AND
SEE IF I'M INTERESTED IN BEING
IT OR WHY ISN'T SOMEBODY ELSE
ON THIS COMMITTEE AS A
COMMISSIONER WHO REPRESENTS
ANOTHER AREA?
SO I THINK IT JUST GIVES AN
UNDERSTANDING WHO IS AND I'M
NOT SHOOTING TO HAVE MY NAME
BUT I JUST THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
FOR THE COMMISSION TO BE
RECOGNIZED THAT WAY FOR THE
COMMUNITY.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, WE'RE ALL
WE'RE ALL LISTED ON THE CITY
WEBSITE ALREADY BUT YEAH, I
MEAN I'M CERTAINLY WILLING TO
HAVE MY NAME ASSOCIATED WITH
THE WITH THE COMMISSION AND
WE'RE ALL WE'RE ALL RESPONSIBLE
FOR WHAT'S IN THAT REPORT THE
CHAIR WROTE IT WAS WITH VERY
LITTLE HELP.
NICE JOB BY THE WAY.
AND BUT WE'RE ALL BEING ASKED
TO READ IT AND APPROVE IT.
WE'RE NOT SIGNING IT.
BUT YOU KNOW, I'M MORE THAN
WILLING TO HAVE MY NAME PUT OUT
AND I WOULD SUGGEST, YOU KNOW,
WE ALL SHOULD HAVE OUR NAMES ON
YOU KNOW, I'M SORRY AND ALSO
BECAUSE WE ARE VOLUNTEERS AND
WE ARE SERVING THE COMMUNITY
AND THE COMMUNITY SHOULD KNOW
WHO THESE PEOPLE ARE.
THANK YOU KNOW IF THEY DON'T
LIKE US THEY COME TO US.
>> OH WELL NOT HIDING BEHIND
JUST THE CHECKBOOK THESE THESE
ARE HUMAN BEINGS HERE WE ARE
AND I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
SERVE THE COMMUNITY AND THE
COMMUNITY.
YOU SHOULD KNOW WHO THESE
PEOPLE ARE.
>> MR. GREEN, YOU HAD A COME.
YES.
IF THE ANNUAL REPORT HAS BEEN
ADOPTED BY THE COMMISSION AS A
WHOLE, WE'VE ADOPTED I DON'T
KNOW WHAT'S ADDED BY ADDING OUR
PARTICULAR NAMES TO IT.
I SIMPLY DON'T WANT A
CLARIFICATION.
YOU GUYS MENTIONED ADDING
NAMES.
THIS IS FOR THE TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR REPORT.
ARE YOU GUYS MAKING A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE NAMES
OF COMMISSIONERS WHO ARE ON THE
COMMISSION OF LAST YEAR OR JUST
THOSE WHO WERE WHO ARE
CURRENTLY SERVING NOW AND WAS
ON THE COMMISSION LAST YEAR?
THE CERTAIN ONES ARE NOT HERE
TODAY AND THEIR NAMES BUT I
THINK IT ONLY I THINK IT WOULD
ONLY PERTAIN TO THE TO THE
COMMISSIONERS WHO WERE
COMMISSIONERS
IN TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR.
>> RIGHT.
BUT THOSE WHO ARE NO LONGER ARE
WE INCORPORATING THEIR NAMES TO
YOU NOW BECAUSE THEY'RE NO
LONGER THEY'RE NOT THEY THEY
HAVEN'T HAD A CHANCE TO APPROVE
THE REPORT.
IT'S TRUE THAT IS ANOTHER ISSUE
OK WELL SO IN THAT CASE JUST
LEAVE IT AS IT WOULD LEAVE IT
AS IT IS LEAVE IT AS IT IS OK
WE DON'T WE DON'T NEED TO TAKE
A VOTE ON THIS.
ANYBODY EVERYBODY OK WITH NO
NAMES.
I'M FINE.
OK, SECOND SECOND POINT I SENT
OUT AN EMAIL I SAID WHAT DO YOU
ALL THINK ABOUT ASKING THE
CHAIR THIS CHAIR THE POLICE
CHIEF CHIEF ANDERSON TO MAKE A
COMMENT IN THE REPORT.
NOBODY SAID ANYTHING SO I
TALKED TO HIM AND HE HE SENT A
VERY EXTENSIVE REPORT WHICH I
TOLD HIM THAT I'M GOING TO EDIT
IT DOWN A LITTLE BIT TOO ABOUT
APPEARANCE.
>> BUT MUCH OF WHAT HE WAS
REPORTING WE ALREADY HAD IN THE
REPORT.
SO THAT WILL BE ADDED TO WHAT
WHAT YOU SEE AND HOPEFULLY
BEFORE THE END OF THE WEEK YOU
WILL GET OUT A FINAL FINAL
DRAFT.
TAKE A LOOK AT IT.
I SAY THAT I'M TRYING TO GET
EVERYTHING DONE BY THE END
OF THE WEEK.
I WILL NOT BE AVAILABLE UNTIL
LIKE THE 12TH OF MARCH.
SO YOU GOT ANYTHING TO SAY TO
ME?
>> SAY IT BEFORE FRIDAY.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY OTHER COMMUNICATIONS
COMES
ANY COMMUNICATIONS, ANY
COMMUNICATION?
I HAVE A QUESTION ABOUT CITY
COUNCIL UPDATE.
I REMEMBER AND MAYBE YOU ARE
DISCUSSING THE LAST MEETING.
I DIDN'T SEE IT IN THE MINUTES
WHERE WE WERE SUPPOSED TO BE
MOTION OR SOMETHING TO CITY
COUNCIL ABOUT ONE OF THE POLICY
WITHIN A THAT IT WAS JUST A
RECOMMENDATION THE LAST TIME
WASN'T FULLY BUT I CAN'T
REMEMBER WHAT YOU KNOW WHAT I'M
TALKING ABOUT.
I THINK YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
THE OH WAIT A MINUTE.
THE SERIOUS INCIDENT IT WAS
FINE WHERE THEY SAID THAT WE
DIDN'T GET IT.
IT WAS OUR RECOMMENDATION WAS
NEVER APPROVED BY THE COUNCIL.
WE HAD TO BACK GO OVER IT AND
THEN SEND IT BACK TO COUNCIL.
WE'VE NEVER BROUGHT THAT BACK.
>> I FORGET YOU DON'T THINK WAS
A SERIOUS IT WAS SOMETHING IT
WAS NOT IT WASN'T PERTAINING TO
THE POLICY IN REFERENCE TO A
PROBLEM WHAT WE'RE ABLE TO DO
OR SEE OR LET US REVIEW THE
MINUTES AND SEE IF WE CAN
FIGURE EVERYBODY THINK ABOUT
THAT TO SEE IF BUT I KNOW WITH
SOMETHING WITH CITY COUNCIL WE
HAD TO GO BACK TO CITY COUNCIL
BECAUSE THE LAST TIME IT WAS
JUST A RECOMMENDATION ON THE
FLOOR AND IT WAS NEVER THAT I
THINK IT WAS ACTION.
WE WANT TO DO IT.
THERE'S SOMETHING VERSUS JUST
INFORMATION TO THEM.
OK, LET'S LET'S LET'S LOOK AT
THAT.
WE PUT THAT ON THE AGENDA FOR
NEXT TIME.
I HAVE A QUESTION TO OUR
COUNCIL LIAISON.
WE CAME DOWN FOR THIS
TRANSPARENCE A MEETING AND
SPENT LIKE TEN DOLLARS IN THE
PARKING METER AND PRESENTED OUR
RECEIPTS AND WE'RE TOLD THAT WE
CAN'T GET REIMBURSED FOR OUR
PARKING IS AND WE HAVE A BUDGET
.
IS THAT WHERE IS THE HOST WHO
SAID THAT?
WHO DID WHERE'D THAT COME FROM
THAT WE CAN GET REIMBURSED WHAT
THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER I
MEAN WHERE IS THAT WRITTEN
SOMEWHERE TO ASK IF YOU WANT TO
WORK?
WELL, MAYBE WE DON'T CARE BUT
IT WOULD SEEM AS THOUGH IF WE
COME DOWN FOR OUR TRAINING OR
FOR SOMETHING LIKE THAT THAT WE
SHOULD BE ABLE TO USE OFFER TO
REIMBURSE US FOR OUR PARKING ON
PRESENTATION OF A PROPER
RECEIPT.
>> SO I WILL LOOK INTO IT IF WE
IF WE CAN'T YOU KNOW, I'LL GET
THE NAME THAT OK, I'LL GET THEN
I'LL GET THAT EMAIL AND I'LL
CHECK INTO THAT.
SURE.
OK ALL RIGHT.
ANYTHING FURTHER.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS.
QUESTIONS.
OH YES PLEASE COME COME RIGHT
UP.
>> THIS IS THE TIME TO DO IT.
>> SORRY.
YEAH.
OH SO I WAS WONDERING FOR WHEN
YOU PROVIDE SUGGESTION TO THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT DO YOU EVER
GET ANY CONFIRMATION THAT THEY
ACCEPTED THOSE SUGGESTIONS?
I LIKE WHAT THEY DID WITH THOSE
SUGGESTIONS SOMETIMES IS THE
ANSWER SOMETIMES YES WE AND
IT'S GENERALLY A VERBAL KIND
OF CONFIRMATION THAT YES WE WE
GOT YOUR SUGGESTION AND WE
ACTUALLY HAD A COUPLE OF OUR
SUGGESTIONS BEING TURNED INTO
POLICY CHANGES.
SO YES.
AND THEN I WAS ALSO WONDERING
WHEN THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
SENDS THE COMPLAINTS THAT
PEOPLE REPORT TO THEM, IS THERE
ANY POLICY IN PLACE THAT FORCES
THEM TO DO THAT OR IS IT WHEN
THEY CHOOSE YOU KNOW WHAT?
>> THERE'S A CITIZEN COMPLAINT
.
THEY PASS IT ON TO IT.
THEY MUST LIKE THEY HAVE TO.
YES.
OH, AND THEN I WAS ALSO
WONDERING FOR EVERY POLICY THAT
YOU PASSED HERE, THE COMMISSION
DOES IT HAVE TO THEN GO TO THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT TO BE
APPROVED EVERY TIME OR IS THERE
A THIRD PARTY THAT MITIGATES
THAT WHEN WE APPROVE A REQUEST
FOR A POLICY CHANGE AND WE
PROVIDE THAT DIRECTLY TO THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT?
OK, YES.
DID THAT ANSWER YOUR QUESTION?
>> YES, I DID.
I WAS WONDERING IF IT WAS JUST
THEM OR IF THERE WAS SOMEBODY
WHO APPROVED OR DENIED THAT.
NO.
AND THEN I DON'T MEAN TO WASTE
YOUR TIME BUT I WAS JUST
CURIOUS OH YOU DON'T HAVE TO
ANSWER IF YOU DON'T WANT TO BUT
I WAS WONDERING WHY YOU CHOSE
TO JOIN THIS COMMISSION.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, MAYBE THAT
WE'D BE HAPPY TO TALK WITH YOU
AFTER THE MEETING.
>> OK, SO WE'D BE VERY HAPPY TO
TALK WITH YOU AFTER THE
MEETING.
OK, OK.
>> AND ALSO FOLLOW OUR SOCIAL
MEDIA BECAUSE YOU'RE GOING TO
GET THOSE ANSWERS IN WRITING.
OH OK.
WEEK BY WEEK SO WE'LL TALK TO
YOU AFTER OK.
YEAH THANK YOU.
GOOD THANK YOU.
THANKS.
ANYTIME WE'RE HAPPY TO ANSWER
GOOD QUESTION.
YES ALL RIGHT.
YES THERE'S NOTHING FURTHER CAN
I HAVE A MOTION WELL BEFORE I
BEFORE I WON'T ASK FOR A MOTION
I WANT TO THANK YOU NATALIE FOR
COMING.
WE ALWAYS APPRECIATE THE
DEPARTMENT AGAIN THANK OUR
OFFICER WHO COMES AND SITS WITH
US.
YOU KNOW WE ASK WE'RE WATCHING
PEOPLE COMING IN TO MEETINGS
WITH GUNS AND SHOOTING UP
PLACES AND WE SAID, YOU KNOW,
CAN WE HAVE SOMEBODY COME WITH
US DURING OUR MEETING?
AND HE AGREED AND ANDERSON HAS
CONTINUED THAT AND WE
APPRECIATE YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH WITH THAT.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN
MOTIONS FOR JUROR OH OK.
>> WE GOT A MOTION FROM
COMMISSIONS COMMISSIONER TICKET
PIPKINS I'M YOUR FAN AND AND A
SECOND BY COMMISSIONER MILGROM.
>> I'M A FAVOR MEETING IS
ADJOURNED.
THANK YOU ALL VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU